Good morning, Hank . It's Thursday, January 4th .  I'm standing on top of Little Pisgah Mountain in North Carolina . That was actually recorded on Wednesday, January 3rd, but you'd have no way of knowing .  I believe that's what they call movie magic !  Hank, in your last video you asked me to continue our discussion of our differences . I think one of the most important differences between us is that you are excellent at living in a way that's commensurate with your values whereas I am not .  Uh, for instance, I didn't recycle until I watched An Inconvenient Truth, and I'm still sorta iffy on it .   And also, uh, I didn't vote   in 2000 . Even though I could have voted in Florida .  Ah, George Bush !  It's all my fault ! God, I'm so stupid !  Ohhh .  Let's change the subject . Also, we have vastly different happy dances .    Yes !  Well, I noticed that in your last video you completely ignored my  " Eat Five Sheets of Toilet Paper While Discussing the Political Situation in Nepal "  challenge .  Let's just admit that that was some awesome pronunciation .  And if you're not going to eat five sheets of toilet paper while discussing the political situation in Nepal, well, I'm going to .  All right, Green, you better do this in one take because it's not gonna be fun .    The thing about the political situation in Nepal is that there are these Maoist rebels who control more than half of the country .  Who has Maoist rebels any more ? Ugh .  No .    I can't do it, Hank .  I think this stuff is two-ply, too . I think that was part of the problem because if you get the one-ply stuff, I can just oghomamamam - just down that - but this stuff ?  Oomph .  Oh and by the way, I have great news ! Brotherhood 2 . 0 viewer, Peter, just had a baby .  Well actually his wife had the baby .  She was in labor for 32 hours ! I'm thinking maybe we should get them a baby present .  A- What, what do you call a baby present ?  A baby-warming present ? Baby .  .  .  shower .  .  .  baby .  .  .  baby .  .  .  A baby present .  I was thinking maybe we could let Peter pick a project or challenge for us ? What do you think ?                 
Good morning, Hank . It's Monday, January 8th .  Sarah and I are about to drive out of Asheville, on our way to Birmingham, Alabama . I know you're gonna be here soon, but in the meantime I thought you should enjoy how pretty it is .  We're going down the dirt road on the way to the other dirt road that leads away from Mom's house .   And Dad's house ! Sorry Dad !  Jeez .  I would like to congratulate you on successfully completing the Strawberry Hill challenge, except that you didn't complete it ! Drinking Sutter Home wine when you've been challenged to drink Strawberry Hill is like slow dancing with Teddy Ruxpin when you've been challenged to wrestle a grizzly bear .  Sutter Home may be terrible, but at least it's derived from grapes .  Strawberry Hill isn't made out of grapes . It's made out of strawberries .  Just kidding, it's made out of apple wine, malt, red dye, and the fires of hell .  Hank, as you know, I had surgery on my mouth a few weeks ago . After they sewed my gum back into my mouth, my mouth tasted like cement and blood and burnt meat .   And you know how after any dental procedure they make you drink that, like, green, gross, minty alcoholy stuff and then spit ?  Strawberry Hill, it tast- *achoo*   That was the Yeti ! Strawberry Hill tastes exactly like that spit .    Do you think I'm funny ?  Am I trying too hard ?  When ? The whole time ?  Teddy Ruxpin ?  It's just you get that way around the camera . So Hank, today is a very significant day, and I'll tell you why .  It's January 8th and the first draft of my new novel is due on January 21st .  Now, I'm not a mathematician, but I know a couple, so I called Daniel Biss and he told me that January 21st is only 13 days away . Aside from the problem of actually finishing the book, which is, admittedly, a pretty serious problem, there's the problem that it doesn't have a title .  I would feel a lot better if I actually had a title for the novel so that I could say, you know, in ten days I have to turn in the first draft of my new novel, The Babysitter's Club 26: Claudia's Sad Goodbye .  I've been thinking of using either Shakespeare or the Bible . You've got a lot of great Shakespearean titles over the years, like:  " Infinite Jest " ,  " The Dogs of War " ,  " Brave New World " ,  " In Cold Blood "  .   And there are also a lot of great Bible titles like:  " East of Eden " ,  " Song of Solomon " , or  " Rich Dad, Poor Dad "  .  Of course in the Biblical version of Rich Dad Poor Dad, rich dad gets turned into a pillar of salt and, uh, poor dad is exalted above all others . Anyway Hank, I'm hopeful you'll be able to come up with a title for me .  Project idea: the Brotherhood 2 . 0 Book Club .  I'll read a book you suggest if you read a book I suggest . My first suggestion ?  Either  " What is the What, "  by Dave Eggers or  " We Wish to Inform You That Tomorrow We Will be Killed With Our Families, "  by Philip Gourevitch .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Thur- what ?  What is today ?  What ?  It's Wednesday, January 9th ?  10th ?  10th .  Boy, I'm out of it .     Hi girls who are being used as objects to sell other objects !  Sorry about the patriarchal oppression .  Good luck selling Dodge Caravans !     I was inspired by your video blog yesterday to calculate my own carbon footprint, so, um, I'm gonna go to BP . com and do it, and then it's gonna be pretty boring so I'm gonna speed up the tape .          Hank, I produce 16 tons of carbon a year .  That is lower than the United States average of 18 . 58, but it's still really bad .  Sixteen tons of carbon would fill three Olympic-sized swimming pools .      Global warming solution idea: What if we took a lot of Olympic-sized swimming pools and we filled them with carbon and we shot them into space ?  Wouldn't that work ?  Can you shoot an Olympic-sized swimming pool into space ?  Is there a way to condense the carbon dioxide into swimming pool-sized shapes ?  Anyway, I think this could work; I don't understand why no one thought of it before .     I just read on the internet that it only costs six dollars per ton to get rid of your carbon footprint .  Uhh, that means that it's only gonna cost me, like, I'm not very good at math, hold on, I'm gonna call Daniel .  I dunno, he's not answering, maybe he's doing real math .  *sigh* Hey, how's it goin ?  Is 21 minus eight fourteen ?  Oh, this is one of those this is one of those, like, abstract math jokes .     It's funny you should say that because I'm actually recording this on a video blog right now because I have a question for you .  What's sixteen times six ?  It's 96 .  Do you see how fast he did that ?  He doesn't have a calculator .  96 .  $96 a year, that's what it would cost to offset my carbon consumption .  Or my carbon production or whatever .     If I pay Al Gore $96, I will not have any global warming attached to my name .  I think you can pay him directly, I think you just write him a check, and he just takes care of it .     He does, he eats the carbon .  That's exactly right, that's how he does it, he eats the carbon .   And then when he poops it out, it's actually political gold .                 
Good morning Hank; it's Friday, January 12th . If you're wondering why I'm drinking a beer in the morning, it's because it's 12:15 in the morning; I have to get up early tomorrow, so I'm doing the vlog tonight .  If you're wondering why I'm drinking light beer instead of regular beer, it's because I'm doing Weight Watchers . I don't like Weight Watchers .  I'm tired of eating popcorn .  They don't give you enough points ! I need more points !  This video blog post is going to consist entirely of ideas .  Misprinted business card utilization ideas: if you had a hole punch, a lot of patience, and a lot of dental floss, you could make Katherine a dress . You could eat them while discussing the political situation in Kenya .  Since you just got married, you can use them to write very terse thank-you notes in very small handwriting .  You could wallpaper every room in your dollhouse . Everybody thinks you have a dollhouse now !  Punishment ideas: I'm just going to pick punishment ideas from things that are currently in our living room .  Several of our books would make excellent punishments . This is The Continuum History of Apocalypticism .  It's eleven-hundred pages long .  It's pretty punishing . The person who fails to update has to send out a Christmas card next year, and the Christmas card has to include the picture of a baby, someone else's baby .  Maybe Emmitt Cloud's baby .  The person who fails to update has to knit a scarf . That would suck .  The person who fails to update has to eat one styrofoam peanut .   And finally: Don't you think it would be a good punishment if you had to do your Happy Dance for three minutes and thirty seconds, but you could only do it at five second clips at a time, so you had to have a total of .  .  .  ah jeez, it's too late to call Daniel, hold on .  70 ? I think ?  70 dances in 70 different locations ?  That'd be a pretty good punishment .  Or maybe that should be a project ? Maybe we could intersperse our Happy Dances .  You do 35, I do 35 .  That has some appeal for me, any interest ?                 
Good morning, Hank . It's Thursday, January 18th .  Yes ! If you're wondering why I'm doing my Happy Dance, it's because I lost three pounds this week !  I'm only twelve pounds away from being a light-heavyweight according to the International Boxing Federation .  Yes ! Unfortunately, I am also doing my sad dance .  So I may have to extend my deadline by a couple of days which is particularly humiliating considering I shared it in public on our video blog, but I think I will definitely be done by Wednesday .  Definitely by Wednesday ! Definitely by Wednesday !  Definitely by Wednesday !  Next Friday by the very latest . Sometimes when I take a morning off from writing, I like to go outside, walk through the park, and play this game .  The game is called Who's Outside on the Upper West Side of Manhattan .    Nanny, nanny, rich kid; nanny, nanny, rich kid; nanny, nanny, rich kid; funny dog !  Nanny, nanny, rich kid; nanny, nanny, rich kid; nanny, nanny, rich kid; funny dog !                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Wednesday, February 7th, and it's story day !  Our story today is called: Everyone Poops in My Pants, by Hank Green .   My name is Hank, and I have a small problem .  Everyone poops in my pants .  Each morning, I wake up, and dozens of people surround my house chanting:   " What do we want to poop in ?  !  "   " Hank's pants !  "   " When do we want to poop in them ?  !  "   " Now !  "   " Hay hay, ho ho, into Hank's pants we gotta go !  "   " Hay hay, ho ho, into Hank's pants we gotta go !  "   " Poop .  "   I know what you're thinking .  You're thinking,  " Hank, I believe that many people have pooped in your pants, but I remain unconvinced that everyone has pooped in your pants, and that is true enough .  For instance, many poor people haven't pooped in my pants because they lack the resources to fly to Montana; and many babies haven't pooped in my pants because they're too busy pooping in their own .  I'm just saying that statistically an improbably large number of people have pooped in my pants .  My mom, and dad, and my brother John have all pooped in my pants .  Kirsten Dunst was wearing and pooping in my pants during the entire filing of Spiderman 2 .  The entire Liverpool Football club pooped in my Umbros immediately after winning the 2005 UEFA Cup .  German novelist Gunter Grass pooped in my pants while wearing his Nobel Prize .  Stephen Dedalus is just one of the many fictional characters who have who have nonfictionaly pooped in my nonfictional pants .  Al Roker had my pants tailored to fit him, and then pooped in them .  Vladimir Ilyich Linden died in 1924 but has nonetheless pooped in my pants .  George W .  Bush is so incompetent that he failed to poop in my pants; although he did poop near my pants and then later claimed that he had never intended to poop in my pants and that no one in his administration had ever talked about pooping in anyone's pants .  Having seen his poop, I can report that it looks exactly like bullshit .    Wow, those guys must be selling the president's war plan .   People often ask me,  " Hank, does it bother you that everyone poops in your pants ?  "  Yes it does !  Sometimes something great will happen, like the other day Barack Obama came by and he pooped in my pants, and his poop kind of makes me believe in America again .   But mostly, I dislike having people poop in my pants .   But everyone has a cross to bear .  Some people have chronic back pain .  Some people are on Team Karen .  Some people are Republicans .  Me ?  I just happen to have pants into which people really like to poop .  It could certainly be worse .  It's like Monty Python member Eric Idle once told me while he was pooping in my pants .       Hank, per the request of several commenters, I hereby challenge you to answer every single question in your survey, in one video blog of three minutes and thirty seconds or less .  Yes you will have to talk at this speed !  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Friday, February 9th, and it's laundry day .    You will note that we have the world's smallest washing machine .  It was the only washing machine slash dryer that was ever designed exclusively for Lilliputians .  Let's see how many clothes it will fit !  One shirt, one pair of boxers, one pair of pants, two pairs of, wait, what's this ?    Oh, it's The Naked and the Dead in My Pants !  Two socks, one pair of boxers, and, it's completely full, in fact it's kind of overstuffed .  I might have to take out one of the socks .     Hank, I talked to Brotherhood 2 . 0 resident mathematician Daniel Biss and it turns out that there's a huge gaping flaw in your mathematical theorem about old people and dying and banjo concerts .  The problem is this: A 70 year old may live, on average, to be 83 years old, but that doesn't mean that a 71 year old is just as likely to die as an 82 year old; in fact the vast majority of people are going to die closer to 82 than they are to 71 .  If you want to see a person die at a banjo concert, the key is not to go to banjo concerts that feature older people, the key is to go to longer banjo concerts; like thirteen year long banjo concerts .     Hank, several Brotherhood 2 . 0 commenters have been asking three questions about my new book:  " What's it called, "   " When is it going to come out, "  and  " What's it about ?  "  I am now happy to answer all of those questions, although I'm going to answer one of them with a long series of lies .  The book is called Paper Towns, it will be published in September of 2008, it's about life in an orphanage in Imperial Japan in the 17th century .  It's about the world origami championship of 2004 .  It's the story of a special boy and his special dog .  I don't wanna ruin it for you, but the dog dies .  It's about an ambiguously gendered child growing up in a Greek American family .  It's about Hamlet .  It's a historical novel in which I imagine the teenage years of Emily Dickinson .  It's about a face that is half in the dark and half in the light .  It's about coming to terms with the fact that even though sometimes even though you eat the points you're supposed to eat you still don't get less fat .  It's about when the last ding dong of doom has clanged and faded from the last rock hanging tideless in the last red and dying evening, that even then there will be one more sound, that of man's puny exhaustible voice, still talking .  It's about a girl name Becca who has a very happy birthday !     Hank, I'll be watching you on Monday from lovely Washington, DC .  See you then !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Thursday !   Hank, after a long delay because of snow in Columbus, Ohio, I finally reached Houston, Texas; where, by the grace of God, it is not snowing . There was one really cool thing about the Columbus airport, though .  They had Nerd Fighters !  NERDFIGHTERS ! Here's my question about Nerd Fighters: Is Nerd Fighters a game about people who fight against nerds ?  Or is it about nerds who fight against other people ? I've came to believe that Nerd Fighters is a game about nerds who fight .  Nerds who tackle the scourge of popular people .   And I've been thinking to myself: This would be a great video game . It could be like a mix between Mortal Kombat and Mike Tyson's Punch Out .  Like, first you pick your character - everyone would totally have their own special powers .  Like, the Band Geek would be like  " I will destroy your ears with my tuba !  "  .   And the Theater Guy would be like  " I am an expert at sword fighting !  "  .   And the English Nerd would be like, um,  " I know a lot of Shakespeare quotes !  " Using the English Nerd when you're playing Nerd Fighters is kinda like using Toad when you're playing Super Mario Kart . So you would pick you Nerd Fighter then you would go to war with popular people .  The Mike Tyson of the game would be the Quarterback of the High School football team; and you have to dodge his upper cuts, and dodge his upper cuts, and dodge his upper cuts and then jab ! I mean, to be honest I've never even really understood the war between nerds and popular people .  Like,    Who'd-who'd-who'd you guys got ?     - Uh, we got, like, George W .  Bush and, like, Tom Brady ?     Ok, well, I see your George W .  Bush with .  .  .  Bill Clinton, and I raise you, um, Abraham Lincoln and uh Franklin Delano Roosevelt .  AND I can easily see your Tom Brady with the thinking man's football player Tiki Barber and I think I can raise you, hm, an  Isaac Newton, a William Shakespeare,  Blaise Pascal, an Albert Einstein, an Immanuel Kant, an Aristotle, a Jane Austen, a Bill Gates, a Mahatma Gandhi and Nelson Mandela and all four Beatles    We win !  And yet, Hank, the war continues . You know what we need for Nerdfighters ?  We need a theme song .  We've got calculators and trombones . We've got D&D and Star Wars drones .  Nerd fighters . We're fighting nerds ! We're no longer just using our words .  When I'm not watching Battlestar Galactica I'm designing weapons that will kick your asstica ! Nerdfighters, we fight with our brains Nerdfighters we bring the fracking pain !  Hank, now that you successfully completed the Strawberry Hill challenge, I feel like it's time that we had some more challenges .  Maybe you or our viewers can suggest some .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Wednesday, February 21st .  Ash Wednesday, I hope that you're going to church today .  Just kidding, you heathen .  What are you giving up for Lent, Hank ?  I'm giving up all foods that taste good !  Oh, wait, I already, yeah, hmmm .  .  .  Hank, after watching your vlog entry yesterday, two separate commenters, Elizabeth and Carrie Jones, both said that it reminded them of the M . T .   Anderson novel Feed .  So, Feed imagines this world where the internet is hardwired into your brain when you're a baby and the result of this is that you become sort of mindlessly consumeristic .  As opposed to the current state of the world, wherein the internet is not hardwired into your brain, and you become sort of mindlessly consumeristic .  Now, obviously, having the entire internet-slash-television hardwired into your brain when you're an infant is a bad idea .   But that doesn't necessarily mean that having Wikipedia inside your brain is a bad idea .  In fact, I would have to argue that having Wikipedia inside your brain would be sort of awesome .  Uh, the only problem is that you don't want to have a Wikipedia that can be edited by anyone inside your brain .  Like, say that there's a girl .       What should we call the girl ?  Huh ?     Sarah: Sarah !     Oh, Sarah !  There's a girl named Sarah .     Sarah: I don't know, is the story good or bad ?     Can you hear the voice of the Yeti ?  Can you hear the voice of the Yeti ?  She just spoke !  Say there's a girl named Sarah, and you really love her .   And you think that she's awesome and beautiful, and she just got a new haircut and it's amazing .   And, plus, you're married to her .  When you go to Wikipedia, and you type in  " The Yeti, "  or  " Sarah Green, "  you should see a picture of Sarah, and you should just be like  " Wow, is she awesome !  "   And then the Wikipedia entry will be about all the ways that she's awesome, and all of the wonderful things that she's done over the years, and all of her amazing talents, and that kind of thing .  Now, say that there's another girl, hmmmmmm, Julie Baskin, my fourth grade girlfriend .   And let's say that Julie Baskin still holds a candle for me, which is perfectly possible because, let's face it, I was a very charming fourth grader .  So, say that Julie Baskin goes in and edits the Wikipedia in my brain, and then when I go look up  " The Yeti, "  it says  " Horrible monster that lives in the Himalayas !  Huge !  Hairy !  Terrifying !  "  Well, I don't want to be married to a huge, hairy, terrifying, horrible monster, particularly not a possibly fictional one !  So, all the sudden, I would stop loving Sarah .  Not because I don't love her, of course I do, but because Julie Baskin edited the Wikipedia in my mind .  So, it needs to be a Wikipedia that can only be edited by experts whom you trust .   And that, of course, is the start of every dystopian novel .  Because then there's the experts whom you trust, and they form the Revolutionary Council, and then all of the sudden you're in Iran and they're developing nuclear weapons .  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Thursday, March 1st; we're one sixth of the way done .  Today's video comes in four parts .  Part one: presents .  Part two: sophistication .  Part three: balls .  Part four: presidential politics .  Yeah, I said balls .     Part one: presents .  Hank, I want to thank you for completing the picture book project .  It really kind of made my day and it felt like you were giving me a present .  I feel like I haven't given you many presents during the making of this video blog and it makes me kind of sad, although it occurs to me that it's kind of a present when I physically hurt myself because, let's face it, brothers like to see that stuff .  Plus, there's the small matter of Christmas 2000, when I bought you a DVD player for Christmas and you bought me two pairs of white tube socks .  I feel like you're still making up for that .    Anyway, Hank, I want you to know that I'm definitely going to try harder to give you presents on this video blog in the future .     Part two: sophistication .  Hank, in the first two months of our video blog we've managed to mention most of the major bodily functions .  Anyway, I've been thinking that we should increase the sophistication factor of Brotherhood 2 . 0 .   And that's why, today, I'm commencing a project to read James Joyce's entire Ulysses to you out loud thirty seconds at a time starting now .    " Stately, plum Buck Mulligan came from the stairhead, bearing a bowl of lather on which a mirror and a razor lay crossed .  A yellow dressing gown, ungirdled, was sustained gently behind him on the mild morning air .  "       Okay, that's boring .  Part three: balls .  Hank, your video on Monday where you had the gigantic blob of earwax removed from your ear got me to thinking a lot about the world's largest balls .  What I'm thinking is this: if you work hard and stay committed, you could potentially accrue the world's largest ball of earwax by the end of 2007 .  Now, of course, it wouldn't just be your earwax .  We would also have to get help from our viewers .  They would send you their earwax and their friends would send you their earwax, and then finally you would mold it together and turn it into the world's largest ball of earwax . Believe me, Hank, this is practical .  I'm a connoisseur of the world's largest balls .  I've seen the world's largest ball of twine, I've seen the world's largest ball of paint, and I've seen the world's largest ball of stamps .   And the world's largest ball of earwax is just out there, waiting to be sculpted .     Part four: presidential politics .  Hank, I have a question for you .  Should Brotherhood 2 . 0 endorse a presidential candidate ?  If so, should we endorse a presidential candidate in the primary ?  I think the answers to these questions are yes, and yes .   And Barack Obama .  What do you think the answers are ?       This feels kind of good actually .       I'm being Hank for a day; I'm being Hank for a day .  I live in Montana and rarely shower, I'm always blogging about solar power, oh, I'm being Hank for a day !     Hey, Hank, something just occurred to me: did I never get you a wedding present ?  If so, please put the word myriad in your next video .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Monday, March 5th, and I am coming to you from the Yeti's childhood bedroom .  I'm sure that you've been thrilled to see the Free Hank movement that's been going on in the comments .  There have been posters   so maybe we should free Hank .  "  No we shouldn't free Hank .  You committed a punishable offense and ye shall be punished . However, ye vocal minority that is the  " Free Hank "  movement has gotten me to thinking that maybe my punishment for you shouldn't be so mean, as your punishments for me have been .  So Hank, here's your punishment; there's the part that you'll like: Peeps, and the part that you'll hate: spending money .  First, you will purchase 100 full sized Peeps .  They can be pink, they can be yellow, they can be green, whatever color you want, but they must be full-sized, and there must be 100 of them .  According to the Internet, that's going to cost you approximately $19, which I realize will be significantly more painful than waxing your chin, but I'm just getting started . Then, in a six-minute period, you will eat as many Peeps as you can .  Now, Hank, remember, I don't want anyone to die during Brotherhood 2 . 0, it's easy to aspirate on Peeps, please take your time, make sure you chew .  Once the six-minute period has ended, you will count the Peeps you have not eaten, you will then distribute those Peeps to worthy recipients in the city of Missoula .  Now here's the catch, however many Peeps you don't eat in that six-minute period, you will contribute that many dollars to a new bank account that I have set up .  The bank account will be known as the Brotherhood 2 . 0 Fund For Decreasing Suck Levels Worldwide, formerly known as the Brotherhood 2 . 0 Milica and Amy Concert Fund .  Hank, we will use your contribution to this fund, and future contributions from us and possibly our viewers in order to increase the overall level of worldwide Awesomeness .  For instance, maybe we'll send Milica to a concert, and then after that, maybe we'll help cure Malaria . Hank, you can look at this as a punishment, but you can also look at is as a project .  We're starting something here, something important, something that is going to allow us to decrease the overall level of the World Suck .  How much are we going to decrease Suck levels ?  That depends on how many Peeps you eat .  I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Guy: Good morning, Hank ! Hank, those warm wishes come from Uncle Grambo of Whatevs . org .  He and I were out quite late last night at Lindsey Robertson's birthday party .  In an unrelated story, I don't feel very well .  Thanks for doing such a great job with the Peeps punishment, I look forward to its completion tomorrow; and I'm pleased that the Brotherhood 2 . 0 Foundation for Decreasing Suck Levels Worldwide is off to a roaring start thanks to your complete inability to eat Peeps quickly .   Phew .  Hank, you may be wondering why today's video is a little late .  It's because I'm feeling a lot of anxiety and I've had a very busy day .  First, I spent three hours at the eye doctor .  It was like this   only it lasted much, much longer .  Then they dilated my eyes so I couldn't see anything .    Then, in a dimly lit room, my doctor told me I probably had nothing to worry about .   I probably have nothing to worry about ?  If I probably have nothing to worry about, then I DEFINITELY have something to worry about .  Don't tell me I probably have nothing to worry about; that's not helpful, tell me,  " You're fine !  Congratulations, good work on those eyes, kid .  "  Then on the way home I talked on the phone to you during a terrible traffic jam    " Well, I- I mean, I noted, certainly, that you didn't competitively eat the Peeps .  " Then I left my cell phone in his car .   But because he's the world's nicest cab driver, he drove to my house and gave it to me .  So everything worked out fine !  I probably have nothing to worry about, and I lost my cell phone but then I got it back !  I shouldn't be worried, I should be happy, so why am I worried ?  There's just this big bundle of stress that I can never get rid of . I blame dad .  I mean, if dad hadn't had cancer when he was my age, I probably wouldn't worry about having cancer .  By the way, did you know you can get eyeball cancer ?  Very rare .  You probably won't get it .  BUT YOU MIGHT ! Then there's the big worry in my life that isn't even my worry; which is that the Yeti is working on her Master's thesis and it's extremely hard and extremely stressful and it just sort of like occupies your whole life .  I've never seen someone work so hard on something .  This morning, I woke up and Sarah had written herself a to-do list on a post-it, I want to read you that to do list:-See picture of Dorian Gray at  Butler Library . -Pay bills . -Call in to question the ideology of class Call in to question the ideology of class ?  That sounds hard !  I wish I could say I was stressed out because I was calling into question the ideology of class .  I'm just stressed out because I have to do laundry .   And, I might have eyeball cancer .  I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Friday March 9th .  My eye's still kinda funny .  Hank, on Wednesday afternoon, for some reason I went out and bought a lot of peeps and I decided to eat them as fast as I could .  At the time I didn't know that we would be introduced to Kurt, the Punk-Rock Nerdfighter, so I thought that I would prove how awesome I was by eating Peeps faster than you .  I mean, not that everything is a contest between us .   And, not that I feel compelled to win each one of those contests .  So, I gave myself 3 minutes to eat as many Peeps as possible .  I would like to show the results from that experiment .   I've got a whole stack of Peeps .    Hank, I may not like the taste of Peeps, but I sure do like the taste of sugar, so in the beginning I found it very easy to eat the Peeps .  As you can see they're going in one after another .  After all I've been on Weight Watchers for eight weeks .  This felt very good .  It's only 10 points for 15 Peeps !   And then as you can see I began to slow down a little .  The Ghostbusters and the stay-puff marshmallow man had begun to war inside me .  Soon the Peeps began to hurt .  They began to expand inside my stomach, growing like so many slowly inflating balloons .  I felt a renewed sense of enthusiasm upon switching to the pink Peeps .  I thought maybe by switching to the pink Peeps I would be able to eat Peeps quickly and efficiently proving myself to be the greatest Peeps eater in the history of the Green family .   But my enthusiasm was short lived .   Hank in the world of competitive eating there is a phrase:  " the wall of fat "  .  The wall of fat is the wall that your stomach hits, when it's trying to expand and then it runs up against your subcutaneous fat .  Thin eaters like Takeru Kobayashi, The greatest competitive eater in history, don't have to worry about the wall of fat .   But I'm not thin yet Hank .  I'm still a heavyweight according to the international boxing federation .  So I began to hit the wall of fat .  At this point all of the Peeps I could eat were inside my mouth, but there was the small matter from getting them from my mouth into my belly .   And as you can see that process took quite a long time .  There was so much chewing to do .  Every time I thought I had swallowed the end of the Peeps, there was more Peeps to eat .  Do you see that Hank ?  That is exactly what Peeps puke looks like .  How do I know ?  Wait .  At this point I think I can maybe still hold down the Peeps, and I think I can hold down the Peeps and I think it can- ah, no I'm not going to hold down the Peeps .     Hank, be grateful I didn't take the video camera into the bathroom with me .  I had, what is known in competitive eating circles as  " a reversal of fortune "  .  Hank, in the end I ate 12 1/2 peeps in 3 minutes .  You ate 12 1/2 peeps in 6 minutes .  Kurt ate 12 peeps in a minute and a half .  Scientific conclusion: It's not possible to eat more than 12 1/2 peeps in a single sitting .  I'll see on Monday .     There is now a link at brotherhood2 . com, that allows you to contribute to the brotherhood 2 . 0 Fund for Decreasing Suck-levels Worldwide .  So please contribute and help us do something about suck .                 
All right ready ?  1 2 3    Audience: Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday !     Holy crap, that was a lot of people .    how awesome is that ?       Yesterday I was speaking in front of all those Borders managers .  Thanks for participating by the way .   But today I don't have anything to do at all, so I thought I'd just walk around Denver .  It sure is beautiful here, although unfortunately the city is being attacked by a giant bear   .     First I ran into this guy   his job seems kind of redundant .  Then, because it is important to me to appreciate the local cuisine, I went and had lunch at Chili's too .  I'm telling you man, this town is being attacked by giant metal bears .     Then I found myself at ESPN zone and I thought:  " Maybe they have nerdfighters "  .  They didn't have nerdfighters .   But they sure had boxing .   And horse racing .  Ah, boy, horse racing is one of those things that feels a lot cooler than it looks .  ESPN zone might not be the fastest way to spend $10 . 00, but it's the fastest way I ever encountered .     Then I happened across a mall .  Hank, I haven't been to a mall in 10 years, so I decided to do an anthropological experiment and see how much malls have changed in the decade that I've been away .    Faux marble tile ?  check .  Sunglasses hut ?  check .  Nobody needs a shoe shine ?  check .  Panda express ?  check .  Subway ?  check .  Flag World ?  check .    Sorry, it broke on the way home .  By the way, low quality merchandise at high quality merchandise prices ?  check .  Card store, where you don't want to buy any of the cards ?  check .  Now I know what you're wondering Hank .  You're wondering:  " Well, sure they still have card stores, but do they still sell the same items that they did 10 years ago ?  "  .  Check !   And now you're saying:  " OK fine, they still sell Ty stuffed animals, but do they still sell those glass-etchings that are extraordinarily cheesy but sometimes convey true sentiments ?  "    Check .  I miss the yeti .     Gourmet gumballs ?  check .  GNC ?  check .  Wait, wait, wait .  Go back !  Gourmet gumballs ?  Gourmet gumballs ?  What kind of flavors you got ?  Chocolate milkshake, creamsicle, banana-strawberry, nerds gum .  Nerd gum ?  Rock !     Hank, in short: according to my anthropological experiment, the American mall remains largely unchanged from what it was 10 years ago .  The primary difference ?  It's just a little more awesome .  Mmmmm, nerdy .  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning Hank .  It's Thursday !     Hank, I just got to my hotel room in Kalamazoo, Michigan .   And you know what was waiting for me here ?  Strawberry Hill, Peeps and Nerds .  Thanks, Kalamazoo .      And all evening long, I've been thinking to myself: What is it that America wants to see me do with Nerds, Peeps and a bottle of Strawberry Hill ?      And then I realized, what America wants to know is whether or not a Peep will float in a glass of Strawberry Hill .  Will it float ?  It floats !  Look, it's a little ducky on a pink pond !     So there you have it, Hank .  Peeps float in Strawberry Hill .   But wait, you say !  Do Nerds ?  Hank, as you can see, I have a lot of grape Nerds .   And now, we are going to test them .  Hmm, that looks delicious .  Well, Hank, the answer is that Nerds to not float .  Except for the lone Nerd that attached itself to the Peep .  Smart Nerd .     Hank, many people say that Brotherhood 2 . 0 is not educational, but I would argue that it is educational .  Because now we've all learned an important lesson, which is that if you find yourself in the open ocean with a thousand Peeps and a thousand Nerds, you should cling to the Peeps and let the Nerds go .     In profoundly disturbing news, it seems that Strawberry Hill turns purple Nerds white .  Let that be a lesson to all of you .  If Strawberry Hill can strip purple Nerds of their color, just think what it can do to your gastrointestinal system .      S-s-s-something from the comments .  .  .  we're gonna miss you Ze .  Peter writes,  " What if your efforts to decrease suck levels actually make suck levels increase ?  What is the contingency plan ?  We need an exit strategy here .  "  Hank, just like Peter, I'm profoundly concerned that we might accidentally increase suck levels .  If you think about it, most of the suckiest things that ever happened started with an attempt to decrease suck levels .  Like, for instance, you have to say that on the whole, the steam engine has been a pretty good thing .  .  .  but then on the other hand, it sure was warm yesterday in Colorado .   But here's the thing I'm thinking: the worst thing you can possibly do is not try to decrease suck levels .  After all, that's what the first Brotherhood 2 . 0 book club book was about .  In our lifetimes, we're all gonna do things that accidentally increase suck levels .   But the true Nerdfighter is awesome enough to say,  " You know what ?  I've made a mistake .  I increased suck levels worldwide .   But I didn't mean to .  I'm sorry, and I think we should change course so as to decrease suck levels in the future .  "     Hank, that's why I'm grateful that so many people in the American government are true and awesome Nerdfighters .  Oh .  Wait .  Crap .  I'll see you tomorrow .       Happy birthday to you, happy birthday to you, happy birthday dear .  .  .    I'm gonna let Hank finish the song .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Wednesday, March 21st .  I assume you don't want to look at my eye for the next three minutes, so let's find something else to do .  First, we're gonna look at these beautiful pictures that the guide shot inside the abandoned cathedral, I mean theater, in Detroit .    They do a much better job showing what it was like to be inside than the video does .    Thanks to the guide at snweb . org for these pictures .  And finally, Hank, I've been thinking of what you should do when you've had a long day that's kind of been bad, and your eye hurts, and it's weepy and gross and no one wants to be near you and everyone looks at you funny .   And it seems to me that the answer is simple .  You just take stuff .  .  .    And you put it on your head !  Wait, where's the camera .  .  . where am I ?  Put it on your head !    When you're sad and you've got pink-eye,  the world seems rough and suck levels are high,  just remember there's one thing that you can do .    And it always works, too .   You've gotta put stuff on your head, put stuff on your head .   Well, it can be blue  or it can be red .   The color doesn't matter if it's on your head !   Attach a photo of Woody right on to your melon,  or affix a Christmas stocking to your cerebellum . The only rule of thumb is don't use a plastic bag .  .  . 'cause that could go really wrong .   You gotta put stuff on your head, put stuff on your head . Well, it could be blue  or it could be red .   The color doesn't matter if it's on your head !  Thank you New York ! What's on your head ?   Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday, March 27th .  I'm coming to you from NYU Medical Center where I'll be for at least one more day .  Sarah was like,  " Make sure they know you're sick !  "    I'm sick; that's my IV port .   But I'm doing okay, and I'm doing a lot better since I watched your video .  Man, did that make my week .     You know, I've said thank you about thirty-five thousand times in the last few days .  You say thank you every time the, uh, the woman comes in and gives you a new IV; you say thank you when they bring you your food .  You say thank you when the yeti, uh, shows up .    I like the yeti .  You say thank you when the yeti spends twelve hours a day here .  You say thank you every minute of every day, basically, because you're helpless and you need a lot of help and you're grateful for that help .     Uh, but it's a very different thank you when you're saying thank you to someone for going way above and beyond the call of duty .  He said doodie !   And, uh, that's what you guys did .  Um, Hank, you in particular, but also all of the viewers to send in those pictures of stuff on their head .   And for me to be able to learn the exciting spoiler that Ron Weasley is going to die via suffocation in a plastic bag in The Deathly Hallows, to learn all of the wonderful things that one can put on one's head, from an ironing board to a large, knee-length boot .  I don't know what else to say except   .  Thanks, Nerd Fighters .  You guys are made of awesome .     Anyway, Hank, the word on the street is that I should be getting out fairly soon, either tomorrow or Thursday, provided things continue to move along as they've been moving along .  If you look at it's way better .    Hmm ?  Look how much .  .  . look how much more white there is !  You're looking up my nose, aren't you ?  You are .  Dammit .     Hopefully I will see you tomorrow here, but you will see me on Thursday at 88th Street .       Thanks again .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Thursday, March 29th, and I'm back home !  Hooray hooray hooray !  I know that my eye still looks jacked up and the fact of the matter is that it's probably going to look jacked up for a week or two .   But hopefully the Nerd Fighters will understand .   Hank, I've got even more great news .  Guess who I got an email from yesterday ?  You !  Yes !  Sucker !  You accidentally included me on a list of people you sent an email to about Mom !  Yes !  You're gonna get punished !  Yes !  Yes !    Yes !   I mean, I don't mean to sound gleeful or anything .  It's just that I've had a hard week, and I look forward to you having a hard week next week .   But how will I punish you ?  What should I do ?  Should I make you wax something ?  Should I make you sing something ?  Should I make you eat something ?  Should I make you snort something ?  Snorting is funny .  Snorting is always funny .   In other news, Hank, when I saw your video yesterday I got to thinking about fishing boat proceeds and, specifically, whether or not you and I can possibly acquire some .  I propose that by April of 2008 you and I have found a way to put some amount of fishing boat proceeds into our tax return .  How hard can it be ?  I mean, ostensibly all you need is a fishing boat and then convince someone to give you some proceeds for the fishing boat, right ?  I'm not good at taxes .     I still can't see very good out of that eye .  You know how Brotherhood 2 . 0 has a resident mathematician in Daniel Biss ?  I wish we had a resident ophthalmologist .  Could someone get on that, please ?  Anyway, Hank, I need the help of the Nerd Fighters to figure out what your punishment is gonna be because at the moment I'm not feeling very creative .  Mostly I'm feeling like touching my eye all the time .    Be honest; do you think it looks better ?  Tell me the truth, 'cause I really, really, really want it to get better .   So, help me help Hank get punished by leaving your suggestions in comments .  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow, hopefully out of both eyes .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's April 6th: Good Friday .  Well, it's Good Friday for me .  For you, it's just regular, heathen Friday .  Hank, you will no doubt note that the zit has not gone away .  I was gonna take Good Friday off, but then at the end of your puppet show yesterday you said,  " John, I'll see you tomorrow .  "   And I don't like to disappoint you .  So, here it is, tomorrow and you're seeing me .      But I'm so tired !     Let's see what the commenters have to see about this subject .  Commenter Quari writes,  " Hey, I just wanted to say that you guys are awesome .  I did have just one suggestion, however .  You both seem, and I could be wrong, to be a bit down and not really wanting to make your bi-daily videos .  I propose that you have every eighth week off to regenerate your humor and energy .  Keep up the good work !  "  Oh, I see what you're trying to do .  You're trying to tempt me .  You're probably a popular person and you're scared because you see what we're doing .  You see what the Nerdfighters are accomplishing and it worries you so you want us to take every eighth week off .   I'll admit, it an attractive idea .   But does injustice take every eighth week off ?  Does despair take every eighth week off ?  Does global warming take every eighth week off ?  Does Dick Cheney take every eighth week off from intentionally misleading the American people about the relationship between Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda ?  Does orbital cellulitis take every eighth week off ?  Does US Weekly take every eighth week off ?  Does suck take every eighth week off ?   No !   And nor shall we !   I'm an English literature Nerdfighter !  I don't need to take days off to recharge .  I just go to my room, read a couple stanzas of The Wasteland, and I'm good to go .  We will stand and fight all year long, except for weekends and occasional holidays .  Nerdfighters !    It reminds me of something the Ghetto Boyz once said .   " Real gangster-ass Nerdfighters don't run from nothin' 'cuz real gangster-ass Nerdfighters can't run fast .  "   Good news, Hank .  The Foundation to Decrease Suck is on the march .  We've just made our first gift of $100 to One Kid One World, an organization that helps refugees in Africa .  Thanks to all the contributors including, most notably, you, Hank .  In other news, congratulations on completing your punishment via sock puppet theater .  I would like to say, though, that as humiliating as those stories were they are not nearly humiliating enough .  I think it's important that all Brotherhood 2 . 0 viewers see the picture that you put up in the comments .  Oh my God .   The plain fact of the matter, Hank, is that it's one thing to look at a sock puppet that is ostensibly wearing lipstick and eye shadow .   And it's quite another thing to look at   Hank Green wearing black lipstick and eye shadow .    Can we see it again please ?    Oh, my God .   It's true that I like The Cure a lot and that I was known to occasionally prowl the halls of Winter Park High School in ninth grade while wearing eyeliner, but I had the good sense never to let myself be photographed .  Can we just do it one more time for people who might not have been watching earlier ?  Maybe you went out to get a sandwich or something and now ah-   There he is !  Dah !  I love it !  Thank you, God, most for this amazing picture of Hank .   Hank, I'll see you on Monday .  Happy Easter !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Thursday, April 12th .      " No matter where I am, and even if I have no clear idea where I am, and no matter how much trouble I may be in, I can achieve a blank and shining serenity if only I can reach the very edge of a natural body of water .  The very edge of anything, from a rivulet to an ocean,  says to me  " Now you know where you are .  Now you know which way to go .  You will soon be home now .  "  That is because I made my first mental maps of the world in the summer time when I was a little child on the shores of Lake Maxinkuckee, which is in Northern Indiana .  Maxinkuckee is three miles long and two and a half miles across at its widest .  Its shores are a closed loop .  No matter where I was on its circumference, all I had to do was keep walking in one direction to find my way home again .  What a confident Marco Polo I could be when setting out for a day's adventure .  Yes, and I ask the reader of this piece, my indispensable collaborator, isn't your deepest understanding of time, and space, and, for that matter, destiny shaped like mine by your earliest experiences with Geography ?  By the rules you learned about how to get home again ?  The closed loop of the lake shore was certain to bring me home, not only to my own family's unheated frame cottage on a bluff overlooking the lake, but to four adjacent cottages teeming with close relatives .  The heads of those neighboring households, moreover, my father's generation, had also spent their childhood summer times at Maxinkuckee .  Making them the almost immediate successors there to the Potawatomi Indians, They even had a tribal name for themselves, which sounded like Eptomianhoys .  Sometimes, my father, when a grown man, would call out to Maxinkuckee in general,  " Eptomianhoy ?  "  and the first cousin, fishing from a leaky rowboat, or a sister reading in a hamock, or whatever, would give this reply,  " Ya, Eptomianhoy !  "  What did it mean ?  It was pure nonsense from their childhood .  It was German, meaning this: Do abbots mow hay ?  Yes !  Abbots mow hay !     So what ?  So not very much, I guess .  Except that it allows me to say that after the Potawatomis came the Eptomianhoys, who have vanished from Lake Maxinkuckee without a trace .  It is though they had never been there .  Am I sad ?  Not at all, because everything about that lake was imprinted on my mind when it held so little information and was so eager for information, it will be my lake as long as I live .  I have no wish to visit it, for I have kept it all right here .  I happened to see it last spring from about six miles up on a flight from Louisville to Chicago .  It was as emotionally uninvoling as a bit of dry dust viewed from under a microscope .  Again, that wasn't the real Maxinkuckee down there, the real one is in my head .  "       We'll miss you .  I'll see you tomorrow                
Good morning, Hank it's Monday, April 16th .  Friendly brotherly reminder: your taxes are due tomorrow .  Hank, I was unfortunately unable to attend any of the Step It Up rallies, and I'll tell you why .  Instead of protesting carbon consumption, I was myself consuming carbon on a series of airplanes, trying to get from San Antonio, Texas to New York City .  I eventually got home, but unfortunately by then all the Step It Up rallies were finished .  I did however make a poster .  I'm not very good at posters .  Hank, just in case you can't read my scribbled handwriting my poster says: Step it up Congress !   And also step it up, self !  Because I feel like I'm also not doing enough in the fight against climate change .  That's why, Hank you may notice that today the video is a little darker then it usually is .  It's because for the next week I'm not going to be using any kind of electricity I don't absolutely have to use .  The refrigerator is going to continue to run, my computer is going to continue to run when I need to use it .  I'm not going to use lights unless they are necessary reading lights in the evening, and I'm not going to watch T . V .  Except for a couple of really important soccer games .  I'm also going to minimize my use of hot water, which is extremely difficult because you know I like to take baths .  Hank, throughout the week I am further going to do things to reduce my carbon emissions, let me know if you have any ideas .  Oh and by the way, I loved your EcoGeek podcast and look forward to more of them .  You need to be careful not to cut off the beginning of your sentences .   Guess what I got this weekend at the Texas library association convention ?  Oh yeah !   How awesome is this shirt, Hank ?  It's so awesome that when I looked on the Hanes tag in the back it's made out of 80% cotton, 10% polyester and 10% awesome !  Thanks to Laura, pictured here delivering the shirt .  Hank, unfortunately there's only one Nerdfighter shirt, and I don't want you to be deprived of it's awesomeness .  So I am going to propose a custody sharing arrangement .  I'm going to send you the shirt now and then maybe you could send it back to me around June or something, and then I'll send it back to you, and you'll send it back -- it's kinda like the brotherhood of the traveling shirt .  After all Hank, what is brotherhood if not sharing clothes ?  Remember we always used to share clothes growing up .  Remember that sailor suit that mom made us ?  That was cool .  That was really cool .  Man, no wonder we were nerds .    And finally Hank: I know this isn't necessarily a political video blog, but there is some very exciting political news going on right now and I can't help but share it with you .  Our resident math mathematician Daniel Biss is running for state representative in the state of Illinois !  Were going to have a resident state representative !  He'll be able to pass legislation that is helpful to brothers, and nerds, and peeps, and video blogs !  His two most important issues, raising the amount of funding we spend for education in Illinois, which is the forty ninth state in the terms of education .  Thank God for Mississippi !   And also cutting carbon emissions .  Speaking of cutting carbon emissions, I should shut off this video camera .  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .  Oh, P . S to make this sign   I used recycled paper .  This is a page from my book, Hank which I am just beginning to seriously revise .  That process is going to take several months .  So expect me to be kind of moody until, say, September .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Friday, April 20th .  It occurred to me recently that Brotherhood 2 . 0 is, itself, as a video blog, contributing to global warming .  I want to make Brotherhood 2 . 0 a carbon-neutral video blog .  Unfortunately, Hank, in order to do that I'm going to have to use a lot of arithmetic .   And, as you well know, arithmetic is not my specialty .  After all, about 2 months ago, I calculated that each minute contained one hundred seconds . Okay, Hank, let's get started getting carbon neutral .  According to Youtube, Brotherhood 2 . 0 has received 116,419 views .  Each video averages about three minutes and nine seconds, which is, according to my calculations, 189 seconds ?  So to start we're going to multiply 116,419 times 189, which is, of course .  .  .  8 gajillion ?  Uh, no .  It's 22,003,191 .  Wow !  People have spent 22,003,191 seconds watching Brotherhood 2 . 0 .  We're famous !  In a related story, Americans need more hobbies .  But it's not just the amount of time people spend watching our videos, it's also the amount of time people spend commenting on our videos and talking about, you know, how much cuter you are than me .  Not that I'm jealous, but I have noticed that you've showed up on some blogs as one of the five celebrities that certain people would like to do certain things with, whereas I have, you know, not showed up on those blogs .   But that's ok, I mean, you know, it's not a competition .  But you also have to factor in the amount of time that we spend making the videos .  So, according to my calculations, the entire Brotherhood 2 . 0 project has taken up 22,856,391 seconds of computer time .  That's 6,348 . 99 hours .  Hank, according to some random website I just found, the average computer uses about 110 watts per hour while browsing the internet .  So you multiply the number of hours times 110 and you get 698,389 . 7 .   But then in order to find kilowatts we have to divide by 1000 .  698 . 4 kilowatts .  In the US, the average kilowatt takes about 1 . 35 pounds of carbon to create .  So, you multiply that 698 times 1 . 35, and then you find out that our videoblog has personally led to 942 . 8 pounds of carbon emissions . Now I know what you're saying, Hank .  942 pounds, that's not that much .  After all, the average American produces about 23,000 pounds of carbon .   But Hank, that means that Brotherhood 2 . 0 is about 1/23 of the average American, and Brotherhood 2 . 0 isn't even a person .  It's an idea !  Let me put this into perspective for you .  According to Dimensions Magazine, there have only been 21 people in all of human history who weighed more than Brotherhood 2 . 0's carbon emissions . Hank, you remember how I said in an earlier video that Al Gore eats carbon emissions and then poops them out and when he poops them out they've been turned into gold ?  Well if we gave Al Gore all 942 pounds of Brotherhood 2 . 0's carbon emissions, and he ate it all, and he pooped it all out, and it all came out gold, and it weighed the same coming out as it did going in, and then we stole the money from Al Gore, and then donated it to Daniel Biss' campaign, Daniel would have $10,429,824 . That's the bad news, Hank .   But you know what the good news is ?  According to CarbonFund . org in order to offset our 942 pounds of carbon, it's gonna cost us about $2 . 75 .  Yes !  Jeez, at prices like this, lonelygirl15 could go carbon neutral !  So Hank, I've donated our $2 . 75 to CarbonFund . org, making Brotherhood 2 . 0, through the month of April anyway, carbon neutral . I'll see you on Monday, Hank .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday, April 26th .  Today's video blog comes in five parts .     Part one: Papa, it's his birthday, you need to call him .     Part two: Speaking of old people, Helen Hunt is on your guilt-free three list ?  Helen Hunt ?  Helen Hunt ?  Hank, I'd just like to remind you that cougar hunting is not legal in the United States .   But anyway Hank, you're talking about your celebrity do list, as another commenter called it, reminded me of number: 3 .  My own celebrity do list, which I keep, of course, in my copy of How to Be a Lady In Your Pants .  Now, let's see if we can find it in here .  Ah !  There it is .  OK, Hank, we have Natalie Portman, perfectly acceptable, Jenna Fischer from The Office .  Pam .  The only thing I like the idea of more than Pam and Jim getting together ?  Pam and John getting together .   And then of course, we have Judy Blume .  I mean, she's cute .  She's really cute and one time at a conference she kissed me on the cheek and I liked it and I like her and I'm not gonna talk about it anymore .  OK, maybe you get a pass on Helen Hunt .     Part 4: Moving !  Hank, I'm sorry to hear that your house is on the block .  I have good news though, I think that you should buy a house .   But not in Missoula .  Specifically I think you should buy a house in Indianapolis, Indiana .  You wanna know why ?  Because I'm moving there .  Sarah got a job at the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is really one of the most exciting contemporary art spaces in America .   And we're really psyched to go there, umm, but I'm a little worried because I don't have any friends in Indianapolis, and I think I'm gonna miss New York .  Although if you think about it, Indianapolis is like the New York of Indiana .   And also I'm told that its got really good urban exploring .  Plus yesterday I was looking on the internet and houses in Indianapolis are almost free !     Part five: Hank, I liked your EcoGeek podcast animation introduction so much that I've been thinking that we could have a shorter, more visual animation for Brotherhood 2 . 0 that maybe doesn't spell communication wrong .  Maybe you or one of the Nerdfighters can get on it .  I'd do it myself except I'm bad at animating and plus I have to figure out how I'm gonna move to Indianapolis with all of these books .  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Wednesday, May 3rd .  No it's not, it's May 2nd, am I ever gonna get that right ?  I'm sitting in front of different books because change is good .       Helena, Montana .  Helena, Montana .      Good work with the song .  In fact Hank, you did such a good job with the song that I can't help but think that maybe you could write one song every two weeks for the rest of the project .  Say, every time you have to do a Wednesday .  That would be fun and also easy !   And by easy I mean, you know, for me .      Hank, thanks also for standing in that line to get Neil Gaiman to say hi to me .  Neil Gaiman signed more books on that day in Helena, Montana than I've signed in my entire career .  I gotta start writing about Neil Gaiman stuff .       And speaking of books, there's big news out of the young adult literature world .  Brotherhood 2 . 0 fan and future secret sister Maureen Johnson has just had a book banned in Oklahoma .  Hank, the book in question is called The Bermudez Triangle .  I don't wanna do it, I don't wanna do it, I don't wanna do it .  .  . ahh in your pants !  Ahhhh feels so good when you let it out .  The Bermudez Triangle .  .  . in your pants .      Hank, the fact that The Bermudez Triangle is funny when you add  " in your pants "  is literally the dirtiest thing about the book .  There is nothing in it that's inappropriate for teen readers .  For that matter, there's not really anything in it that's inappropriate for like, 10 year-olds .      Hank, one of the biggest problems with book banning isn't even the books that get banned, it's the books that don't get banned because they never get into libraries in the first place because people are scared that they're going to get banned .  Part of the reason we have to fight challenges is so that librarians know that we're with them when they get challenged .      The other main reason that we have to fight challenges is because it's absolutely ridiculous to ban The Bermudez Triangle from a high school library, when it doesn't even contain any, like, dirty words or dirty scenes or anything !  All it contains is gay characters .  Honestly Bartlesville Mid High School, are you seriously going to ban all books that contain gay characters from your high school library ?  Are you gonna ban Bridget Jones's Diary ?  The Color Purple ?  No Exit ?  Brideshead Revisited ?  Angels in America ?  The Picture of Dorian Gray ?      No, I don't think novels should be removed from high school libraries simply because they have homosexual characters .  If you agree with me, I put the email addresses of all the people who were on the committee, most of whom haven't even read the book, right there  , beneath my picture .  Let's email them, and tell them that we won't stand for this .       And then Hank, if they don't email us back, we can call them on Friday .  I do have their phone numbers .  I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday May 8th, 10th ?  8th ?  It's an even numbered day in May .  A commenter recently had an idea that we should release a Brotherhood 2 . 0 calendar to increase the Funds to Decrease World Suck, and I think that's a great idea .  It would be exactly like a regular calendar, except without weekends, and also the date would always be wrong .     Hank we're in the airport in New York City on our way to go house hunting in Indianapolis .  This will be my first time visiting Indianapolis as a, you know, resident .  Hank, there were several happy birthday messages that got lost in my email that I'll have to show you on Thursday, but for now I don't have them because we're in the airport and I don't have my computer and I don't really know what's goin' on and we gotta go house hunting .  We're very busy we gotta meet Penny the Realtor, there's a lot going on .   But, I will show you those happy birthday greetings on Thursday .     Also, during the Happy Birthday Top Secret Project I learned a lot of interesting things about our Nerdfighters .  For instance, did you know, and this is entirely true, one of the Nerdfighters is going to be competing this year in the National Spelling Bee in Washington, D . C .  Hank we have a semi-professional speller !     Hank in other news, Maureen Johnson's book the Bermudez Triangle seems to have been sort of half way un-banned .  Specifically the school administration is now arguing that they didn't ban the book at all in the first place, they just recommended that it be banned, and then removed it from the shelf, which somehow does not constitute banning .  Anyway, it seems like our letters have worked and now it's just a matter of seeing if the school superintendent agrees that the book should stay on the shelves .     Observation: people look at you funny when you scream into a camera at the airport at 7:10 in the morning .     Hey Hank, while we're here at the airport I thought we might go to Hudson News to see what's goin' on in the world .    What's Wrong with Brit's Baby !  Is not a sentence that ends in an exclamation point .       Hank, most of that video was filmed at like 7 o'clock this morning at the airport, and now we're in Indianapolis and it's like 11 o'clock at night and I only have about 30 minutes to upload and edit it and do everything with my Brotherhood 2 . 0 video and I'm extremely stressed out and plus we saw like 12 houses today and they were all nice but they also all need work and it was really really really really really really really really stressful and the last thing I want to do is come home and have to make a video .     Hank, you know when I get stressed out you know what I do ?  I do this thing   I do the puff ?  I do the puff up ?  I do the constant puff up ?  I've been doing the puff up all day   You see Hank, in my life, the puff level has a direct correlation to the stress level .  The puff level is high, so the stress level is high .  Don't get me wrong .  Shopping for houses is really really really fun, it's exciting and it feels good, and the houses are interesting and everything else, but it's also, scary .  So the puff level is high, and the stress level is high .   And Hank, on Thursday I'm going to need you to help me pick a house .  I'll see you tomorrow .          Brotherhood 2 . 0 would like to wish a very belated but very happy 30th birthday to Shanon James .  Nerdfighters !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Thursday May 10th, the third day of my house hunt .  The Yeti and I have seen 26 houses in the last two days           hey wait, go back, go back, is that a tree house ?     Yeah, it is .     You saw a house with a tree house ?  That's awesome .     Yeah, I know, it was- it was-it was pretty cool .  It was a cool house .     Hey did that house have any other really cool features ?     It had a pub room .     Dude, you saw a house that had a tree house and it had a bar downstairs where you could have two different kinds of beer on tap ?     Yeah ?  It was pretty nice I guess ?     Dude, why didn't you buy that house ?     Well, cause the Yeti was all like, we need bedrooms .          Seriously Hank, that's a lot of houses .  Hank, I'm gonna have to film the rest of this at the Indianapolis airport because we still have to do more house hunts .       Hank, I have great news, or at the very least potentially great news .  Sarah and I saw a house we really really really liked and we put an offer on it .  That means that, it was like, we told the house we like you, and then we wrote them a note that said do you like us back ?  please check one: yes no maybe ?   And now we're waiting for the house to write is back .  Specifically the house in the form of its current owners .  We're very nervous .     Anyway, Hank, here's a quick tour of the house that we may live in if they like our offer:   Anyway, Hank, it's a great house in a great neighborhood .  You can walk to this quaint, adorable little coffee shop called Starbucks .  Do you like it ?  I hope so, because you're gonna have to come visit us a lot, because we got a guest room just for you .     Anyway Hank, wish us luck with the house and I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Wednesday, May 16th .  You may notice that the puff level is a little high .  There's so much puff on the sides, Hank !  Puff !  Puff !  It reminds me of when I was in high school and they called me muffin .   Hank, I don't know if you can see the beads of sweat dripping down my forehead, but it's been a long day here in New York City, it's hot, and I've spent the day reading the screenplay of the Looking for Alaska movie, or as it's known in Hollywood, 'Famous Last Words' .  They're changing the title of the movie because, y'know, Looking for Alaska sounds like it's a movie about mountaineering, or something .  Anyway Hank, I think it's a pretty good screenplay, even though it's way different from the book, and let's just keep our fingers crossed that they make it .   Hank, even though so far as I can tell we haven't gotten official permission from Evil Baby Orphanage creator Brooke to make it into a movie/novel/graphic novel/we don't know what yet, I think we should move ahead with the project .  Unfortunately it's hard to write collaboratively about something when you're not allowed to communicate via text, so I'm going to propose that we discuss the Evil Baby Orphanage in video blogs .   But obviously, we can't do it in the brotherhood 2 . 0 video blogs, so I propose that we make a series of Evil Baby Orphanage videos in which we're reading to each other from our proposed book proposals- is that grammatically correct ?  I'm gonna go with it, and then eventually we'll create a book proposal out of the things we're reading to each other .  That shouldn't be too hard, right ?  I mean, we don't need text any more .  Text is dead .  Just kidding .  I miss text so bad, Hank .  I miss it, I miss it, I miss it .  Sometimes I'll open up the instant message window, and I'll make it say BrokenGolfClub, and I'll just have it sitting there and I'll type into it, but I won't hit enter so I don't break the rules .  Hey, I just told everyone what your screen name is !   Now obviously the Nerdfighters have to have access to the evil baby orphanage videos, so I'm going to propose that we also post them on brotherhood 2 . 0 over the weekends, if and when we actually do this .  Okay ?  Okay .  Moving on .  Oh wait, before we move on, can I just say one thing ?  An Evil BABY Orphanage does have to contain evil babies, but babies grow up, and what they grow up into is teenagers, who become kind of, maybe, evil baby junior counselors .  Y'know, they gotta take care of the evil babies, they've gotta change the evil diapers, et cetera .   And what would it be like, Hank, to be 14 or 15 years old and all of a sudden realize that the reason you're on this mountaintop school in Canada and never allowed to leave campus is because you are an evil baby from the past ?  I'm just saying, I think it might be interesting .   Okay, really moving on now .  Hank, in your last video you correctly pointed out that I was born in the city of Indianapolis, the city I'm moving back to .  You incorrectly said that I lived there until I was three .  In point of fact, I lived there until I was three weeks old .  Hank, I know that you have a limited knowledge of my early years, due to the fact that you weren't alive for them .   But don't you remember how we lived in Michigan, and then moved to Birmingham, and how you were born in Birmingham, and how then we moved to Florida ?  Jeeeeez .   Anyway Hank, eventually you won't have to remember that I left Indianapolis when I was three weeks old, because all that stuff will be covered on my Wikipedia page, or as you like to call it, Wee-kee-pedia .  Come on, Hank, this isn't Canada, say it with me: Wi-ki-pedia .  It's not quite there yet, but it's getting there .  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .     P . S .  Hank, the Yeti just officially became a Master .  Look at these awesome pictures I took !  My gosh, I'm like Ansel Adams, only, y'know, drunk .  Forget the video blog, Hank, I'm going into professional distance photography .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Friday, May 18th, the day that I leave for my trip to the Netherlands .  The Yeti and I are going to the Netherlands to support my new novel, 19 Kier Katherine, which I'm sure I'm pronouncing extraordinarily well .  I'm really excited about my trip to the Netherlands; I was supposed to go in March, but I got the orbital cellulitis so I couldn't, but now we are definitely going, unless I get orbital cellulitis again .  Hank, this means that possibly I'll get to meet some brotherhood 2 . 0 viewers who live in the Netherlands, cross your fingers, maybe even Toobias !  Too-bee-as .  .  ?  Too-bye-as ?  Hmmm .  I'm not very good at pronunciation .  Speaking of pronunciation, Hank, it may seem like you pretty well schooled me on the pronunciation of Wikipedia .  I mean, you certainly have a lot of fact-based evidence to support your assertion that Wikipedia is supposed to be pronounced wickypedia or whatever .  I can't even pronounce it the way you pronounce it, my tongue doesn't make those movements .  I may not have facts on my side, Hank, but I still think I'm right, that's the American way .   And, really, what kind of evidence do you have ?  I mean, you have Wikipedia, a known fraudulent source, and you have a girl robot voice saying wickypedia .  Big deal .  I can get a girl robot voice to say it my way .  Sarah !  Sarah ?     The Yeti  : Yeah ?     Can you come in here ?  Can you say Wikipedia in a robot voice ?  Come on, Wikipedia in a robot voice .     The Yeti: Wikipedia .     In a robot voice !     The Yeti: Wi-ki-pedia .     See ?  Girl robot voice saying Wikipedia .  Checkmate .  Speaking of Wikipedia, I'm trying, I don't know if you know this but your Wikipedia entry has been - oh, dammit - I don't know if you know this, but your wi-kee-pedia entry has been the subject of repeated acts of vandalism .  Many people have changed your Wikipedia entry to say, quote,  " he is a gay "  .   But one person went further than that, and said a lot of truly offensive things that I can't repeat on this vlog because of the sensitive ears of our younger listeners .  I would, however, like to share with you a couple of quick sentences from the vandalism .  Quote:  " Both him and his brother John and gay "  Period .  Ummm, do you mean  " both he and his brother John are gay "  ?  Because if you're gonna vandalize Wikipedia, you should do it with some reverence for the English language .  The next sentence reads  " John Greens wife is a trans "  Period .  There's no apostrophe in the Green's, by the way .     Commenter Misu, or My-zu, or Mitsu, I don't know how to pronounce anything, says  " I don't care about how you actually go about making a fiction book proposal, all I care about is that you make the proposal using puppets .  "  MisuMyzuMitsu, I can't necessarily make the proposal using puppets, but I can tell Hank about how to make a fiction book proposal using puppets .     Okay, Hank, today we have playing the role of my lovely editor, Julie Strauss-Gable: Mr .  Argyle .     Julie Puppet: Hey, how are you guys ?  Good to see you again .  Okay .      And playing the role of me, we have our old friend, Oobie .     John Puppet: Hey fellas .  Okay, uhh, okay Julie .  We're just gonna start out by talking a little bit about a fiction book proposal .     Julie Puppet: Umm, you're not doing a very good job of moving your hands right when you talk .     John Puppet: I know, I know, I'm not .  .  um, I'm not a puppeteer .     Julie Puppet: My husband is a puppeteer .     John Puppet: I know .   But I couldn't get him on such short notice, because, um, we're going to the Netherlands .  Can we just- Can we just get on with the thing ?     Julie Puppet: Yeah yeah yeah, very rarely do you see a first novel sell on a proposal, they almost always have to have the finished manuscript .     John Puppet: Right .  I finished the manuscript of Looking for Alaska .     Julie Puppet: Yeah, but then when it came time for you to create an Abundance of Katherines, I said why don't you send me a proposal ?   And you were like-    John Puppet: I don't know what a proposal is, I'm just a little Oobie !     Julie Puppet: Exactly .   And I told you that a proposal is basic-    Sorry puppet fans, I'm gonna run out of time .  Hank, basically all you need is a plot summary, a list of the characters and then sample chapters so they know what the book is actually about and is gonna sound like .  Alright, I really gotta go to the airport, Hank .  I'll see you on Monday .          The Yeti: Did uhhh, you say happy birthday Katherine ?     Happy birthday Katherine !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday, May 29th, I'm back on the odd days, and I am here in New York City searching for packing supplies .  Hank, you've turned us into conservationists and as conservationists we feel compelled to scour the streets of New York City for moving boxes .  Instead of, you know, purchasing them .     Hank, you may notice a slight difference in the background of this video, that's because the Yeti and I have almost finished packing all of our books .  Hold on, I'll show you .  Aaaaahhhh .  Uuuhhhhg .  Hank, there are many things that Nerdfighters are good at .  We're good at puzzles, we're good at being smart, we're good at being extraordinarily good looking, but we do not excel at lifting, and lifting, I'm sorry to say, is a very important part of moving .  OK, hold on, I'm gonna get up and show it to you .  Guh !    Look at all the books ! Hank, packing all of those books has sort of sucked and it's caused my hamstrings to snap into two, but there has been one advantage: I've found two books that I've been looking for for a long time .  The first is called: Everything You Need to Know About The Goth Scene In Your Pants .  Hank, here's what I'm wondering: what kind of Goth scene are we talking about ?  Because I don't mind having people listen to The Cure inside my pants, but it's gonna be really awkward to have large armies massacring each other uh, in my pants . Hank you asked my while I was in the Netherlands what we were going to do about the paucity of evil female babies .  That brings me to the second book I found while packing: The Most Evil Women in History !  In your pants .  Hank this book has introduced me to several really genuinely evil women, but I am particularly impressed by Queen Ranalova !  Ranavalona ?  Ranavalona ?  Queen Ranavalona the first .  Uh, I like a couple of things about Queen Ranavalona first I like saying her name: Ranavalona Ranavalona Ranavalona Ranavalonaaaaaaaaaaaaaa !   And second I like the fact that she's Ranavalona the first and that there was never a Ranavalona the second .  This reminds me of one of my other favorite monarchs from history, King Zog the first of Albania .  Zoooog .  Anyway, Hank, I'd like to read you a quote about Queen Ranavalona .  " If this woman's rule lasts much longer Madagascar will be depopulated .  "  Anyway, Hank, I don't think we should have any trouble at all finding an adequate number of evil ladies to fill out the Evil Baby Orphanage .  I think that's all from me, Hank, I'll see you t-  Wait what's that ?  Come in !    Thank you very much !    Ah !  From the desk of The Yeti !  Hmm:  A year ago last week John Green convinced this girl to say I do  And his brother was you . Hank, thanks for your warning, But there's only so much one Yeti's womb can do .  And that number is two .   Only one girl could ever stop John Green From achieving his one unmatchable dream I know that he will stop before 19If he wants to remain married to me They may play Ultimate, they may play darts  But they needn't play soccer to win our hearts The only kind of sporting team our kids will fill Is a competitively fierce game of skill They needn't be numerous, they needn't be huge  And the team they'll make is two-man luge I could go on for many verses more  But the crucial lines are stated heretofore Hank I've got to tell you Tell you about the power I have .  Sarah Green May some day be a luge team making machine  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .   Oh, and happy 26th birthday to Amy, and happy 13th birthday to Anne, you guys are like half each others' age, so that's cool .                 
Good morning Hank it's Wednesday, June 6th .  You may be wondering why I'm coming to you from a bathroom in a La Quinta Inn in Indianapolis, Indiana .  I can't really account for the fact that I'm in a La Quinta Inn, I mean, I guess we were trying to save money or something .   But it sure is nice in here   I'm in the bathroom because I have to record my video very early in the morning and I don't want to wake the Yeti up .  Hank, Yetis can get a little cranky when you wake them up early .     Today is the day that we are hopefully closing on our house .   And that will make us, like, officially homeowners, and like, literally I'm gonna have to mow the lawn tonight .  Can you mow a lawn at night ?  Are there regulations about that ?  That's just one of the many things I don't know about being a homeowner, Hank .  Anyway, Hank, we're gonna spend pretty much all day and all night on this whole, like, uh house purchasing thing .     Hank you may also be wondering why I'm sitting here in my boxer shorts .  Well, that's a very reasonable question, by the way, I- I am in my boxer shorts but I'm not going to prove it, you're just going to have to take my word for it, because I don't roll that way .  Sure would it be helpful to our YouTube views if maybe I were to show a little more skin ?  Probably .  Probably .   But, you know, I think there are other ways to get to the top, Hank .  Like for instance making sure that a picture of Lindsay Lohan in a bikini is your still shot   .     Hank the reason that I'm in my boxer shorts is because My Pants   are full of people !  Hank, the Brotherhood 2 . 0 forum, My Pants, has only been in existence for about eight hours and there have already been 200 posts !  The forum also has nearly 100 registered viewers in its first eight hours of existence .  Hank, I'm so excited that there are so many people in My Pants talking about the things that are at the core of what it really means to be human, like whether or not George W .  Bush is adequately evil to be put into the Evil Baby Orphanage .  Hank I can't tell you how happy I am to finally be having lively discussions about the Evil Baby Orphanage in My Pants, and I really appreciated your John McCain retraction in My Pants .  Although your still underestimating Obama, poke poke poke poke poke poke poke .     Also, I can't believe you're gonna be a TV star !  I mean, it sounds like this show is gonna do for The Weather Channel what I Love the 80s did for Vh1 .  I mean, Hank you're gonna be huge, you're gonna be the Michael Ian Black of The Weather Channel .  Who else are they gonna get to be the, like, fresh funny face of The Weather Channel ?     Anyway Hank, it's time for me to go to the bank now and take all of the money I've ever earned out of the bank, and put it into a house .  Not that I'm worried .  I'm not worried .  It's gonna be OK .  I'm scared !  I hope everyone has a great day in My Pants, by the way I am not going to get tired of that joke .  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Friday .  Hank, I feel that something momentous has happened in my life, but I'm a little bit fuzzy on the details .  So I think that we should just go to the tape and try to piece together the events of the last 24 hours .     OK, that's me and I'm wearing the same shirt so it was probably yesterday .  Coulda been the day before, but probably yesterday .  OK, it's dark, uh, oh I think I see the outline of a couple heads, I know those people those are my friends .  Those are my friends .  Hank, I was out with my friends last night .     I wonder if I was having fun last night ?    YES !  NERDFIGHTERS !     Yep, looks like I was having fun .  It's coming back .  Last night was our going-away party from New York .  Maybe there's a clue in my pants .  It's evil baby Stalin !   And who's this little guy ?  I think it's evil baby Hitler .  Thanks to New York Times reporter and my high school friend Cam Robertson for those amazing illustrations .  Hank, I don't know about you, but that makes me want Cam to do the illustrations for the Evil Baby Orphanage book if and when it exists .     In other news: I'm officially a home owner .  That's good, and scary .  Hank, I don't wanna be like a new mother about the house and constantly showing you pictures of it and stuff, but here's some pictures of it .     Look at the kitchen !  It's so nice !   And then you go upstairs and that's the loft .  I like a lot .  I'm very fond of it .   And actually behind the loft there's the secret room .  Hank, it's like Webster's house .  What do you think, maybe 18-20% of our viewers have ever seen an episode of Webster ?  Here's the finished basement .  Here's the ghost of the Yeti .  Here's the master bedroom .  I think it's a great house, Hank, and I hope that you will come visit us because we have carved out a bedroom that is just for you .     Oh hey, by the way, you wanna know something really interesting I've learned while moving ?  I own a lot of tote bags .  I'm like the tote bag fairy .  Anyway Hank, I'm gonna give all these tote bags away in My Pants .   And I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Thursday I have good news and bad news .     First: the good news,   Yes !  !  Thanks to about 35 thousand residents of the Dominican Republic we managed to get our silver magic cord that takes the ideas from inside the camera and puts them inside the computer .  From the big city, which is like an hour and a half away, to the little city, which is here .  YES !      And now the bad news, Hank, and I really can address this video to you because you went off to the beach or whatever to use the internet magic phone to talk to the Katherine, but anyway, we had been planning all week for an exciting Brotherhood 2 moment of hilarity .  About six weeks ago my cousin Braxton called me and he said, John I have good news and I have great news .   And I said, oh, well, let's start with the good news, and he said, my wife and I are going to have our first child .   And I said, wow, that is really really good news, I can't imagine what the great news is .   And then Braxton said, John, the great news is this: in the Dominican Republic they have miniature donkey polo .     Miniature donkey polo !  Now before any of you animal rights nerdfighters get mad at me let me quickly point out that miniature donkey polo is not inhumane .  Witness for example: Christopher Robin and Eeyore ?  Huh, huh ?  Getting ridden by Christopher Robin was the only thing that ever made Eeyore happy .  Add to the long list of things I thought I would never say but ended up saying on Brotherhood 2 . 0  " ridden by Christopher Robin .  "  Anyway Hank, I've spent the last six weeks looking forward to miniature donkey polo and then I called this morning because the miniature donkey polo was scheduled for six o'clock and they said that it had been cancelled due to heat .  I don't wanna exploit the donkeys, but we're in the Dominican Republic .  How can you cancel something due to heat ?  It's always hot here !  So unfortunately our reunion is going to have to end without donkey polo .     Anyway Hank, it's been a great week, I've loved hanging out with you, it's been every bit as fun as the Growing Pains theme promised it would be .  I think we've also micro finance and poverty and what life is really like in this country and I think we're looking forward to making those videos when we get back home to regular video equipment land .   And really I think the only way this trip could have been better is if our grandparents hand been here and if Katherine had been here .  I mean, without them it does feel a little bit like a family reuni instead of a family reunion .  Anybody ?  Anybody ?  Hmm ?  Hmm ?  Hmm ?  Spelling jokes ?  Any one ?  No ?  OK .  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Monday, June 18th, the day of my last video from New York .  I'll miss a lot of things about New York .  I'll miss its nannies, its rich kids, its funny dogs .  I'll miss its funny cats .  I'll miss its excellent public transportation system, its astonishingly low crime rate .  I'll miss the everything now-ness of this place .  I'll miss its hustle, and I'll miss my friends .   And I'll also miss this walk .  King Saul fell on his sword When it all went wrong  And Joseph's brother sold him down the river For a song  And Sonny Liston rubbed some tiger balm in his glove some things you do for money and some you do for love love love Raskolnikov felt sick  But he couldn't say why When he saw his face reflected In his victim's twinkling eye Some things you'll do for money  And some you'll do for fun  But the things you do for love Are gonna come back to you one by one Love love is gonna lead you by the hand Into a white and soundless place Now we see this As in a mirror dimly Then we shall see each other Face to the face  And way out in Seattle Young Kurt Cobain Snuck out to the greenhouse Put a bullet in his brain Snakes in the grass beneath our feet Rain in the clouds above Some moments last forever  But some flare out with love love love                
Good morning Hank, it's Wednesday, June 20th and we are on our way to Indianapolis .  I would look at you, but I'm driving a gigantic moving van .         Hank we made it to Indianapolis !  Although, as you will probably notice, puff levels are a little bit high .  I hope this is the worst I ever look on Brotherhood 2 . 0 .  How am I gonna meet Judy Blume with this hair ?  Hey Hank, you know what's fun ?  Driving a 24 foot moving truck halfway across the country .  It's particularly fun when it's raining !  Because then you don't just feel like you're steering a run away train, you feel like you're steering a run away train that's on skis !  Also, you know what's really really long ?  Pennsylvania .     Hey Hank, congratulations on The Weather Channel, I haven't even seen it yet, but Mom says it's awesome .     So it ended up taking, like, 18 hours, but eventually we made it to Indianapolis .  I'm really happy I'm here .    Look, Hank, nature !  I mean, you know, when I was in New York it was almost impossible to contribute to the global water crisis, but here it's really easy .      the worldwide water shortage crisis is all my fault !    OK, uh, quick question Hank, what do I do about all this grass ?  I mean, I used, like, eight baths worth of water in like ten minutes trying to make it less brown .     Hank I haven't even seen your video from yesterday, so I'm gonna go to Starbucks, upload this, watch yours, and then take a nap that's gonna last, like, 30 hours .  I'll see you tomorrow .       P . S .  Hey Hank, I don't even know if you know this, but we were sort of, like, halfway featured on YouTube last week, and one of our videos, I think it was the one from June 4th, ended up getting a lot of comments from YouTubers .   And let me tell you Hank, YouTubers are smart   All I'm gonna say is that these YouTubers were definitely not Nerdfighters .  Hey, speaking of which, Hank what's the opposite of a Nerdfighter ?  Anyway Hank, I would read some of those comments to you, but unfortunately most of them do not contain any English words what so ever .  It's just sort of a random string of letters with an occasional profanity .   But one YouTuber did write a legible comment .  He said: I notice you are a nerd, why ?  Why ?  Why am I a nerd ?  Why ?  Hank, Nerdfighters, why are we nerds ?   And why are we proud to be nerds ?  By the way, any Nerdfighters who are also YouTubers, can go to YouTube and give the video from June 4th a high rating, and it might be featured again .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Friday, June 22nd, you'll never guess where I am, unless you guess an airport, in which case, you guess right .  I'm always in airports !  Hank, the day before yesterday I moved to Indianapolis, Indiana .   And today I'm moving to Washington, D . C .  Fortunately this move is only for five days .  I'm going to the American Library Association's Annual Conference, which is, like, the librarian conference for the entire year .  It's huge !  Don't worry I will be reporting back on Tuesday .     A lot of things are happening at this librarian conference .  I'm gonna be accepting the Printz Honor for An Abundance of Katherines, and I'm also going to be on a panel with Judy Blume .  Judy Blume !  Judy Blume and I are going to be speaking together from the same table !      But before I can do any of that I have to get a haircut .   And I can't get a haircut in Indianapolis because I'm already in the airport, and I don't have any scissors, so I'm gonna have to get one in Washington D . C .  I hope they have good, you know, hair cutting places there .  I'm a little bit worried that where ever I go they're gonna make me look like a Senator .  Hank, as you will no doubt recall, I had the Senator look when I was about twelve years old, and it didn't really work for me .       Well Hank, I've now gotten my haircut .  D'you like it ?  D'you like it ?  I like it, I'm pretty happy with it .  I went to a barbershop in Washington D . C .  called Louis's and the guy who cut my hair had cut the hair of both Bill Clinton and Willie Nelson .   And when he told me this information I was like, hmm, Bill Clinton and Willie Nelson are both historical figures whose work I admire .   But I'm not necessarily looking to emulate their hair styles .  Hank I've always felt that hair is a fair indicator of one's political position, you know ?  You can always right wing Republicans because they have the Senator haircut, and you can always tell, like, big time Lefty Hippies because they've got the long hair .  So I explained to the guy at Louis's that I wanted a cut that was somewhere between the Willie Nelson on the far Left, and the Bill Clinton in the center .  Because I'm a Liberal, but I'm not, you know, a pot smoking tax evading liberal .  All things considered I think that he did a pretty good job of giving me a haircut that's, you know, a good haircut for a Liberal, young guy, but not a real Liberal young guy .     Hank, thanks for all your good wishes this week as we traveled across the country .  I'll see you on Monday .                 
Buenos Dias !     Good morning Hank, it's Thursday, June 28th .  Welcome to my new backyard .  Hank today we're gonna learn how to be micro financiers .  It's kinda like being a regular financier, only it's free, and instead of being evil it's good .  Hank, the Dominican Republic resort we stayed at was pretty swank, but we took one day to go to the real Dominican Republic, where, like, regular people live .   And what we learned there was that regular people in the Dominican Republic live in poverty .  In fact, about 60% of people live in extreme poverty in the Dominican Republic, and about half of those people live on less than one dollar a day .  People in extreme poverty have almost no interaction with regular banking .  In fact, when we were there we  saw people who didn't know if you signed a check on the front or on the back .     They don't have any opportunity to have access to banking because they don't have the kind of collateral that loans require .  So they end up in this cycle of poverty, right, where they can't get a loan to get a business, and without a small business they don't have any job opportunities because there aren't really any jobs because the economy doesn't function very well and the reason the economy doesn't function well is because no one can get loans to start businesses .     So microfinance organizations take the poorest of the poor and they offer them opportunities .  Now the only type of other loan that these people can get are from loan sharks, who often charge a thousand percent annual interest .  Hank when we were in the Dominican Republic we met with that wonderful group of women who were just about to graduate from their microfinance training .  They'd spent five weeks learning the basics of banking and also thinking about what kind of businesses they were going to start, and then we showed up for their graduation ceremony which was held in their neighborhood .     The woman on the bottom left in this picture was opening up a shoe store, the woman next to her was going to sell Avon products .  The woman directly two rows behind her was opening up a cafeteria .     Here's the remarkable thing about this microfinance organization we met with: Their loan payback rate is more than 98% .  That's higher than like, most American banks .  Because these women know that this is an excellent opportunity to have a chance to get out of poverty, they're really good about paying back their loans .   And then once they pay back that loan, they take out larger loans to continue to grow their business .  In fact, as we were driving back from that neighborhood, we saw a sprawling complex of restaurants that was all started by one woman who got one one hundred and eighty dollar microfinance loan .     Hank, I think we can agree-   hold on .    I swallowed a gnat .  Stupid nature .  Hank, I think we can agree that microfinance is an awesome idea .  The problem is that usually the people who start these microfinance organizations are like really really rich .  However, there is now this amazing website, kiva . org, K-I-V-A- . -O-R-G that allows you to be a micro financier .  You give money directly to someone who's living in extreme poverty, and then they pay you back .  Hank, it's like charity, only it doesn't cost you any money !     So, Hank, as a project, I propose that you and I over the next week give several gifts to Kiva . org .  Maybe the Nerdfighters will join us .  Hank, I've gotta go back inside and paint my office, I'll see you tomorrow .                   
Good morning, Hank, it's Monday, July 2nd, the first day of the second half of Brotherhood 2 . 0 .  It's also coincidentally the second day of National Finish A Revision Of Your Book I Mean Seriously Come On Month, also known by its acronym, NAFAROYBIMSCOM .  Incidentally, Hank, I still haven't settled on a title .     Hank, holy crap !  You and me and the Nerdfighters raised many, many thousands of dollars for Kiva . org over the weekend .  Hey Hank, do you remember in my video on Thursday when I said that we couldn't personally open a microfinance bank because it takes really wealthy people to open a microfinance bank, and so instead we would have to rely on Kiva . org ?     It turns out that when I said that, I was forgetting about the law of compound Nerdfighting !  The law of compound Nerdfighting is sort of similar to the law of compound interest which, Hank, I'm sure you remember from when Dad tried to tell us about it a million times when we were kids .  As far as I can remember, the law of compound interest states that you have to put a little bit of money in the bank when you're a kid, and then by the time you're old, it's become a lot of money .   And the reason for that is this very complex fiscal thing known as magic .     The law of compound Nerdfighting is similar in that it also involves magic .  The law of compound Nerdfighting states that 100 Nerdfighters as a group can do things that 100 Nerdfighters as individuals could not do .    In this example seen in this t-shirt that you own, Hank, we see that 100 Nerdfighters together can beat up a popular kid .  By the way, Hank, I've been thinking that maybe the opposite of Nerdfighter is Decepticon .  Do you like it ?     What I learned this weekend is that we actually probably could have started a microfinance bank if we'd only known about the law of compound Nerdfighting, because people were extremely generous .  I mean, we have funded a lot of loans now, and over the course of next week, we're going to continue to fund loans .   And we're going to fund loans like crazy !  We're gonna help people open bakeries and shoe stores .  The other day we helped a guy who wanted to start a lasso factory .  A lasso factory ?  That's so awesome !  How come I didn't think of that ?      But there's only one problem, Hank .  The Nerdfighters are probably getting kind of tapped out .  What we need is more Nerdfighters .  Hank, I never really craved more Nerdfighters until this weekend .  I mean, there's plenty of people out there who are Nerdfighters who just don't know about the term yet .  Hank, what we have is an acute Nerdfighter shortage !  We gotta do something about this .  Hank, I think broadly speaking, there are four kinds of people in the world .  First, you have your Decepticons, you know, not Nerdfighters .  Then you have your Nerdfighters, you know, me, you, Tobias, Otter, all the commenters, all the people who hang out in My Pants, all the people who write Nerdfighting songs, that kind of thing .  Then you've got what I like to call your Nerdfighters-In-Training, or that kind of thing .  Then you've got people who would be your NiTs .  Your NiTs are your lurkers, your occasional viewers, Nerdfighters, but they don't even know what a Nerdfighter is yet .  That's very troubling, Hank, because those are the people who could be giving to Kiva . org to pick up where the current Nerdfighters are having to leave off because they're out of money to lend .     So Hank, what I'm gonna propose is a series of mass promotions !  First, we have to promote the Nerdfighters to being Senior Executive Nerdfighters .  Then, we're going to promote the NiTs to being Nerdfighters .  Then, we're going to take all the people who do not yet know that they are Nerdfighters, and we are gonna promote them to NiTs !  Hank, we have to find a way to tell these people that they're NiTs .   And then we have to tell them to loan money to Kiva . org because the law of compound Nerdfighting says it clearly, Hank, the more there are of us, the fewer there will be of them .  I'll see you tomorrow .    Hank, speaking of us and them, there's an interesting conversation about post-colonial theory going on in the comments .  That's the kind of thing that maybe we could talk about in My Pants .  Oh, and that's one more difference between people who aren't Nerdfighters and people who are NiTs and people who are Nerdfighters .  People who aren't yet Nerdfighters are like,   Why is that guy talking about post-colonial theory in his pants ?   And then people who are NiTs are like, Oh man, I should really join that forum .   And people who are Nerdfighters are already starting the thread .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Thursday, July 5th .  Hank, I don't know if you know this, but yesterday was America's big birthday, everybody was really excited about it, it was all over the news .   And of course the way that we celebrate America's birthday is by pretending to have a war .  Uh, if you don't think that we celebrate America's birthday is by pretending to have a war, listen to this   That's me recording from a roof deck in downtown Indianapolis, Indiana .  Hank, Indiana is one of those states where all fireworks are legal .  Like, not just bottle rockets and the little things that spin and whippersnappers but also, uh, bombs .     Hank I've always believed that there's a very short list of people who should be able to own explosives .  People who work in demolition, the Army, and- and of course Wiley Coyote .  If you're not directly employed in the demolition business, or in the Armed Forces, or Wiley Coyote I cannot imagine a reason why you need to have a bomb !   But the state of Indiana doesn't agree with me .  They give rockets and bombs to pretty much anyone over the age of 18 who's able to convince a person at a fireworks stand that they aren't a terrorist .     Hank I will admit when I was younger fireworks used to make me feel patriotic, but now they just make me feel scared .    I mean look at me Hank, that was pretty much my posture for the entire evening .  For God's sake, there were bombs going off all around us and they were all being set off by drunk people .    look at those guys !  Those guys aren't demolition experts !     John  : That's coming at my head .  OK, OK, OK, OK, I'm having some anxiety .       Look Hank, goldfish Nerdfighters !      And then once the regular people were done firing off all of their fireworks, it was time for the government to fire off its fireworks .   And Hank, here's where the evening got pretty fricken nuts .  In Indianapolis there's a radio station, Q95 and if you tune to that radio station during the fireworks display they kind of play a soundtrack for the fireworks .  It's like an officially sanctioned thing .  The fireworks themselves are known as the Regions Bank Freedom Blast ha, I'm sorry, it's called the Freedom Blast, Hank, I mean, you can't make this crap up .   And so the Freedom Blast has a soundtrack and fortunately the person that Sarah and I were with knew about this so we were able to listen to the soundtrack .     I hope you're ready to believe in America again, Hank, because what you're about to see and hear is going to change you .    Wait, are they mashing up Neil Diamond with Martin Luther King ?    You aren't seriously mashing up Neil Diamond and Martin Luther King .      Don't do that .  You're embarrassing us !  So Hank here's the long and short of it: last night we celebrated our independence by having a pretend war that was sponsored by a bank .  Welcome to America .  I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning Hank it's Monday, July 9th .  Welcome to my guest bedroom .  By the way for the last two weeks I've been giving you a tour of my house .  Have you noticed ?  Hank over the last few days several commenters and also some people in My Pants have said that you and I, uh, textually communicated on purpose because we miss getting punished .  Would that it were so .  The fact of the matter is that we're just really stupid .  I mean, I don't think you're that stupid, I think that you were probably doing six at once and just happened to textually communicate with me .  I think that I'm stupid .  I don't enjoy punishments, although I do enjoy you getting punished .     Hank to prove to you that I didn't get punished on purpose, I'm going to recreate the actual textual communication we had .  So I'm sittin' around, working on my new book, thinking about what the title should be and all of a sudden, on my screen, up pops a video chat request from you .   And I say to myself, well, you know, video isn't text so that's allowed .  So I hit OK, but for some reason it doesn't work, doesn't go through .   And then I get a text screen pops up that says OK I'm here now .   And I'm like, is that Katherine ?  Did Katherine go up on Hank's IM ?   And so I say, Katherine ?   And the person responds, no Hank .   And then I'm like   YES YES YES YES YES YES !   And I'm sitting there and I'm thinking to myself he's gonna get punished .  He's so punished .   And then I just wanted to tell ya, Hank .  I just wanted to tell you how punished you were .   And so I said Dude, you are so punished !   And then I hit return .       Wait, I ju- we just need to take a quick time out from this story .  Just to say Nerdfighters !     Honestly Hank ?  Even after I typed enter, even after I saw the words Dude you are so punished pop up on the screen .  I was just like dobidydoobidydabidydabididoodoo .   And then I noticed that you weren't writing back, and I was like, why isn't Hank writing back to me ?   And then I said, oh, right it's because we're not textually communicating .  Doh !  Stupid stupid stupid !  GAHH I'm gonna get punished !     I think that we have your punishment all set up in My Pants .  It look like your punishment is definitely going to involve wait- can we- can we go ahead and cue up the-   YES !  Yes !  It's going to involve recreating that !  I don't know the other details, but it's definitely going to involve recreating that picture .     As for my punishment, it doesn't seem like anyone's said a lot of anything, and Hank maybe you could go into My Pants and help people talk about it and pick stuff that you think would be particularly harmful to me .     Oh, and Hank, quick side note: I know that we can't veto our punishments, obviously, because then they wouldn't be punishments, but I do think that our wives should have the right to veto punishments that the Nerdfighters suggest for us .  Because nothing against the Nerdfighters, but sometimes they suggest punishments that are sort of, uh, maniacal .  Like, oh, I think you should have to do your happy dance in public 200 times and then after that you should have to saw off your leg .  Now the fact that I don't want to saw off my leg shouldn't figure into the punishment thing at all .   But the fact that the Yeti doesn't want me to saw off my leg that's a deal breaker to me .  So I hope we can agree: wives have veto power .   And, uh, I will see you tomorrow .   But more importantly, hopefully by Thursday, I will see   this guy again !                 
Good morning Hank .    It's Wednesday .    I'm getting my abs in shape   for my punishment .  Also, welcome to my basement .  What do you think ?  Hank, the light in the basement isn't very good .  Let's go outside .  Is it bad that my abs kind of hurt after those four sit-ups ?  Okay, Hank, I have to make this video super fast because I gotta go out tonight, and also I have to get back to revising my new book .     By the way, Hank, I have decided that my new book is definitely going to be called Paper Towns unless I change my mind again .  Do you like that title ?  I mean, I know it's not super commercial, but it is the perfect title for the actual book .     It's interesting that my puff levels generally are not very high, but then the puff level just right here in this area is extraordinarily high .    Puff .  Puff .  Puff .     Hank, I do have a small piece of bad news regarding my punishment: I seem to have thrown away all of my academic decathlon medals .       Hank, I know what you're wondering- you're wondering, 'Is that really Harry and the Potters doing the Nerdfighter hand thing ?  Hank, it is !  That's some Nerdfighters with Harry and the Potters !  Yay Harry and the Potters !  They're like the number one Harry Potter band in the world !     Commenter Margaret said something about how my academic decathlon medals prove that I'm smart, but I'm afraid that that's not actually the case .  The way academic decathlon works is that there are three tiers of students .  You've got your A students, your B students and your C students .  A students have GPAs of 3 . 75 and above, B students have GPAs above 3 . 0 and then C students have GPAs below 2 . 99 .  Basically, what those medals mean is that I was the third best C student in the state of Alabama, which is not quite the same thing as being smart .     Hey Hank, I'm wondering if we can add just one more thing to the punishment: the commenters in My Pants have been crazy about the idea that we're going to dye our hair green .  I think that's a great idea, except that most green hair dyes last for about eight weeks, which is a little long if you're about to turn thirty years old .  I mean, if I was twenty-six, twenty-seven, eight weeks of green hair, no problem .   But when you're thirty, it just seems kinda sad .  Fortunately there's that awesome spray-on green hair, pictured here .  So Hank, here's my idea- you spray paint this part, the mohawk part, and then I'll spray paint all of these parts, the parts that aren't mohawk-y, and then between the two of us, we'll have a whole head of green hair .     Hank, I hope it's a nice day in Missoula .  It's certainly beautiful here in Indianapolis .  I'm going to go and enjoy the day now .  I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Friday .  Hank, that's the view outside of my back yard .  The view that I am generally looking at while I'm writing .  As you know I've never taken a lot of stock in nature .  I mean, I'm in favor of the environment and everything, but my general policy is that we should protect it by keeping ourselves distant from it .  I'm generally a big fan of inside .  In fact I believe that the entire reason human beings created inside was so that we wouldn't have to deal with outside anymore .   And I've always found it endlessly amusing that people choose to be outside .  Camping, backpacking, when our ancestors when through all this trouble to make inside for our comfort and happiness .  Going outside just seems dismissive to your ancestors .  Let's face it Hank, Nanny and Papa worked hard all their lives so that we could live inside .  But ever since I moved to Indiana, I find my distaste for outside kind of beginning to wane .  In fact, Hank, I am so enamored with outside that I am now going to show you a nature-themed Nerdfighters photo .  Remember Nerdfighters, SPF 30 or above .    That's right baby, we may be pasty, but Nerdfighters can hang out at the beach .  I mean I still don't like the occupants of outside .  For instance I don't like mice, and I don't like moles .  There's a family of raccoons that lives under our deck .  I don't like the raccoons .   But I am starting to enjoy working outside .  Although it's a screened in porch, so it's only kind of half outside .  In fact Hank, maybe screened in is the exact right amount of outside .  It occurs to me that I could probably hike the Appalachian trail as long as I had a screened in enclosure around me at all times . Hank I'm looking forward to doing my punishment on Tuesday .  I've already gotten some medals of some kind together, and this weekend I'm gonna get myself to the thrift store, get me some big baggy pants, maybe one of those old belts like I used to have, some green hairspray .  Oh, speaking of the green hairspray: obviously I don't want you to just spray paint a green mohawk into your head .  I want you to spray paint a green mohawk into your head and recreate the Goth picture . OK Hank, I'm gonna go back inside and continue my attempt to find the perfect song to dance to during my punishment .  I mean obviously if you're gonna be a shirtless surprisingly fat guy recreating the look of a shirtless amazingly skinny guy, you need a great song .  Incidentally anyone with suggestions for that song is welcome to share them with me .  Hank, I'll see you on Monday .                 
Good morning Hank it's Tuesday, July 17th, the day of my punishment .  Hank in your punishment video, by the way pretty hilarious, you said that you didn't know where to get green hair dye that you can spray on .  I didn't know where to get green spray on hair dye either, but fortunately Indianapolis has something called 86th Street .  86th Street is like a normal street except it contains all possible commercial entities .  So this morning I got up, I got on 86th Street, I went to the Walgreen's, I went to the Salvation Army, I went to the Goodwill, and I went to the party store .  I got green spray on hair dye but I think that that's gonna have to actually wait until Thursday, since you didn't do yours yet . I have really really really really big pants look Hank .    They're huge !   And I got a belt for my really really really huge pants .  I think it's a girl belt, but I don't think it matters, I mean, you just wore lipstick . Now since my punishment is to recreate a mix of two pictures .  First this picture: Oh boy .   And secondly this picture, I've also had to find some medals .  Hank I have three medals: First my Alabama Library Association author award .  Second the medal I got for being an Audie Award finalist .   And third a medal I created myself using an Ethernet cable and a button that a Nerdfighter gave me that says ask me how you can join the Evil Baby Orphanage .  Oh, and also I got a bow-tie . Alright Hank, let's do it !    I know what you're wondering Hank, you're wondering first why is your chest making noise and second where did all the medals go ?    OK, OK, I gotta get psyched up .  Oh !  I forgot about the glasses !  I can't very well recreate this picture without the glasses !    Do you like these ?  No .  These make me look like the bastard child of Harry Potter and Harry Caray .  Fortunately I have these   unfortunately I can't see anything out of them !  Where are you ? We're gonna do it this time .    Really Hank, is this a punishment for me or the audience ?    Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .   I'm dancing, I'm dancing, I can't see anything, I'm dancing, I'm dancing, and   OK !  I'm OK !  Nothin's broke .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Thursday, congratulations on your song yesterday .  It was your best song ever .     Hank, a couple months ago I did a video that was about, like, a day in the life of a writer .   And it was me, and Scott Westerfeld and Maureen Johnson, hanging out in a hotel room and writing .   And that was really fun .  So I thought I would do a follow up called A Day in the Life of a Writer, uh, Who Doesn't Have Any Friends .  So now that I've moved to Indianapolis what happens every morning is that I get up and I sit down in this chair, or possibly outside, and the first thing that I do is, uh, I listen to, uh, your song .       God that's a good song .  So after I've listened to your song I spend about 30 minutes missing my old writing friends from New York .  So I'll say to myself, I wonder what Scott and Justine are doing today ?  They're probably having fun .  Probably having a fancy lunch .  Maureen's just gotten back from England, I bet she's having some fun .  Probably writing a funny blog post .  I wish they were here .  It's kind of boring .  This room echoes .  Echo .  Echo .  I'm lonely lonely lonely lonely   !     Hank, after all of my warm up is over I proceed to do, uh, this:   .   And that goes on for about seven hours .  The funny thing about writing is that whether you're doing it well or doing it poorly it looks the exact same .  That's actually one of the main ways that writing is different from ballet dancing .     Today I've been working on a part of my new novel that's about a hundred and fifty pages in, but I thought just for fun, I might read you the prologue, since people in My Pants have been spending so much time debating what my book is about, I thought maybe I would give them the slightest hint .     The way I figure it, everyone gets a miracle .  Like, I will probably never be struck by lightning, or become the dictator of a small nation in the Pacific islands, or contract terminal ear canal cancer, or spontaneously combust .   But if you consider all the unlikely things together, at least one of them will probably happen to each of us .  Admittedly the world contains a lot of people .   But it also contains a lot of unlikelihoods .  I could have seen it rain frogs in my home town .  I could have stepped foot on Mars .  I could have been eaten by an Orca .  I could have married the Queen of England, or survived months at sea .   But my miracle was different .  My miracle was Margo .     Hank I'll see you tomorrow, and since I won't have a chance to speak to you again until you're finished with Harry Potter, I just wanted to say I hope it lives up to your every expectation .  I mean if the book is as good as the song you wrote, then it's gonna be one heck of a book .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Monday, July 23rd and today we're going to learn how many Q-tips we can put in an ear .  One .  Two .  Three .  Four .  Five .  Six .  Six Q-tips fit in one ear !    Are the new viewers gone yet ?  Hank you may be wondering why I'm lying in bed looking a little feverish .  It's because I am a little feverish .  This weekend the Yeti and I went to the Sandwich Antique Fair, which is located in Sandwich, Illinois .   And we got a lot of stuff for the new house, like for instance we got a dining room table .     And we got this weird TV from the 1960s that looks kind of like a diver's helmet .      But it's not just antiques you can get at the Sandwich Antiques Fair, you can also get upper respiratory infections with fever and achy-ness .  So that's nice .       We could have gotten this good lookin' Mountain Dew sign but it was too expensive .  I do kind of feel like my innards are being tickled, but not in a good way .  The one thing we couldn't find in Sandwich, Illinois ?   And this was a bit of a surprise to me, a sandwich .  All I wanted was sliced turkey on white bread .  Was that too much to ask, Sandwich, Illinois ?       Jeez Hank, it just occurred to me that maybe I shouldn't have made this video .  Maybe my flu is transmittable via video blog .  That would suck .  I don't wanna make you sick .   But the marriage to Brotherhood 2 . 0 is kind of an sickness and health, richer poorer, til 2008 do us part kind of thing .  So, I'll see you tomorrow .                 
So Hank this morning the first thing I did was I got up and I went to look at YouTube, uh, and I was like, well that's weird, I don't usually see Hank's face on the front page of YouTube .  That's a little- OH MY GOD WE GOT FEATURED !  Good morning Hank, it's Thursday, July 25th .  Hank you're getting so many comments that there's no way you can respond to all of them .  So, uh, I'm going to do it for you .  Until my four minute deadline I'm going to read and answer as many YouTube comments as I can .  Hank, I know you're wondering, you're wondering how am I gonna know, John, if it's you or if it's a YouTuber when you're reading ?  The answer is that when it's a YouTuber I'm not going to have green hair, and when it's me I am going to have green hair .     LOL what a sexy geek !   Actually he's a sexy nerd, but that's a common mistake .     It's Accio not akio .  No it's ahkio not akio .  No it's not, dumbass, it's ashio not akio .  No it's ahkio, no it's akio, no it's oshkosh b'gosh !   OK, once and for all it's Accio stop bothering him !     You guys look like the Proclaimers .   Really ?  Did the Proclaimers have green hair ?     Who ever made this is a nerd .   Yes, that's the idea .  We're nerds .     Funny but could you look any dorkier ?   Yes he could look dorkier .  He could have spotty green hair .     Why are dogs scared of vacuums but not of peanut butter faces ?   That's a really good question .  Maybe it's because vacuums are scary whereas peanut butter faces are made of awesome .   Nigeliscool657 writes: get a life, nerd .   Your screen name is Nigeliscool657, did 656 people before you have the screen name Nigeliscool ?  Furthermore to best of my knowledge no one in human history who is cool has ever had the screen name blank is cool ergo you are a Nerdfighter, sorry, live with it .  It's a good thing .     What's a Nerdfighter ?   A Nerdfighter is like a regular person except instead of being composed out of, like, tissues and cells and organs, they're made out of awesome .  Nerdfighters do stuff like hang out at the Brotherhood 2 . 0 forum, My Pants and uh,   embroider pillows .  Hank look at those embroidered pillows !  They even put my pants on them !     This was so jokes .  You have real skills .   Uh, this isn't really a response to that comment, but wouldn't it be great if instead of saying cool we always said jokes ?  Yeah, we just got featured on the front page of YouTube, it was pretty jokes .  Man, the Mountain Goats are so jokes .  Hey is it hot outside ?  No, it's pretty jokes .     Umm, can you say obsession ?  Oh right, that's what you are .  Cough cough .  Get a life .   Uh, when you say cough cough get a life do you mean cough get a life cough ?  Because   get a life isn't funny, but  get a life  that's funny .   Pisstaker writes: Geek .   Your screen name is Pisstaker and you called Hank a geek ?  Um, I have a couple problems with the screen name Pisstaker .  The big one is this: who isn't a piss taker ?  Like, how does being a piss taker set you apart from the crowd ?   Kush45 writes: Got anything better to do ?  Like make some money ?  Get a job ?  Harry Potter doesn't care about you cuz he's not real .   Harry Potter isn't real ?  Oh no !  Wait, wait, what do you mean by real ?  Is this video blog real ?  Am I real if you can see me and hear me, but only through the internet ?  Are you real if I can read your comment but I don't know who you are or what your name is or where you're from or what you look like or how old you are ?  I know all of those things about Harry Potter .  Maybe Harry Potter's real and you're not .   Rustyjusty123 asks: can I put your face on the MySpace ?   I've heard a lot about the MySpace and I think it would be fine if you put Hank's picture on the MySpace .     Wow, he's 27 .  He looks like my little brother .  My little brother's ten .   He looks like my little brother too, and I think he's awesome !   So that's all the questions I can get through .  Hank congratulations .  I don't even know how to celebrate I'm so happy .  I think I'm gonna put silly string in my hair and then do my happy dance .    The Yeti is going to be really mad when she gets home and sees the carpet !  Happy dance time !    YES !  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Friday, July 27th, and I have REALLY EXCITING NEWS !  That might have been too much; it's not that exciting .  I have reasonably exciting news !  Actually, after the excitement of the last couple days, that's probably even too much .  Hank, I have news that I find exciting that you, uh, probably won't . That's right, I finished cataloging my home library !  YES !  This is something I've wanted to do ever since we left New York .  When I had to pack up all those books, I said to myself,  " When we move, I am going to make a brilliantly catalogued library so that I will never lose another book again in my entire life .  "   And now, with the help of library thing . com and The New York Public Library's Guide to Organizing a Home Library In Your Pants, I've done it !  That's right, I own a book about how to organize your library . Uh .  .  .  this is off-topic, but I wonder exactly how many books can fit inside the library in my pants ?  I know that right now, the flamers are all like flexing their little flame fingers, preparing to write  " u r a nurd "  .  Hank, I have a serious question .  Why is being a nerd bad ?  Saying  " I notice you're a nerd "  is like saying  " Hey, I notice that you'd rather be intelligent than be stupid, that you'd rather be thoughtful than be vapid, that you believe that there are things that matter more than the arrest record of Lindsay Lohan .  .  .  why is that ?  " In fact, it seems to me that most contemporary insults are pretty lame .  Even  " lame "  is kind of lame .  Saying,  " You're lame, "  is like saying,  " You walk with a limp .  "  Yeah, whatever .  So does 50 Cent; he's done all right for himself .  It's not that I mind being insulted, it's that I mind being insulted so poorly .  There are plenty of great insults .  I mean, you could be like,  " u r way 2 focused on urself "  . You wanna talk about some insults, let's talk about Shakespeare's insults .  I mean, here's a conversation of contemporary insults .   " You're a dork .  "   " You're a geek .  "   " You suck .  "   " No, you suck .  "  Compare that with a conversation made out of real Shakespearean insults .   " I think that you're a herd of boils and plagues .  "   " You monstrous malefactor !  "   " Mad-headed puke stocking !  "   " You stuffed cloak-bag of guts !  "   " You're just a huge bombard of sac !  "   " You barren, spoiled man .  You carcass, fit for hounds !  "   " Dude .  Carcass fit for hounds ?  That's a burn .  "   " Yeah, I know, right ?  Carcass fit for hounds ?  Not bad !  "   " You valiant flea .  You foul and ugly witch !  "   " Oh, shut up, you presumptuous vassal !  "   " You fat and greasy citizen, you saucy lackey, you fancy mongerer !  "   " Yeah, well, you're a mildewed ear !  "   " You're a timorous wrench .  "   " Maybe so, but you're a foul, mis-shapen stigmatic with an odoriferous stench .  "   " You foul, undigested lump !  "   " Wait, lump of what ?  "   " Shakespeare didn't specify .  Maybe like .  .  .  Big League Chew ?  "   " That's disgusting .  I'm just like a pound of Big League Chew sitting in somebody's stomach ?  " Now THAT'S how you insult people .  With Shakespeare .  Nerdfighters for the win .  Hank, I'll see you on Monday . Oh, wait, I forgot to show you my home library !  Hooray, home library !  OK, Hank, we start off with Shakespeare, poetry, reference, reference, reference .  Then we got Islam, we got wicker basket, then we got Christianity -- you have to separate them with the wicker basket so they don't get mad at each other .  Then we've got Chinese religions, and then we've got some history and social sciences .  Author copies of An Abundance of Katherines, author copies of Looking for Alaska, foreign editions of both books, and children's books .  Then in the main room, we have first editions of contemporary fiction, literary biography, southern studies .  Then up here, we got novels by dead guys, stuff Mark Twain wrote, and travel .  Then we have novels by living authors, we have young adult fiction, mystery novels, literary criticism, and of course, humor .   And then over here we have my collection of first editions of books that are about conjoined twins .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday, July 31st .  Today's video comes in six distinct parts .  That's a lot of parts, so let's get right to it . Part one: Harry Potter .  Hank, apparently today is Harry Potter's birthday, which is a great excuse for me to set off one of the champagne poppers that I got for free when I was getting the green hairspray .  They were having a very eccentric sale at the party store .  The sale was,  " if you buy an item, we will give you champagne poppers .  "   Ooh !  Happy birthday, Harry . Also on the topic of Harry Potter, Hank, I would like to suggest that if you ever happen to start a wizard rock band, that you definitely should call the wizard rock band Tonks for the Memories !  That joke is courtesy of our Secret Sister Maureen .  And speaking of Secret Siblings, part two, Secret Siblings !  Hank, way back on February twenty-first of this year, our Secret Brother Tom made a strange and obscure prophecy .  He said,  " I believe there are more Secret Siblings .  "  Now obviously, since Tom, our Secret Sister Maureen has emerged, but I'm wondering, Hank, are there more ?  Hank, as we begin to get more video responses, I'm starting to think that maybe there are more Secret Siblings .  Secret Siblings who will take up the oppressive yoke of vlogging and periodically respond to our videos .  Nothing against you, but I always wanted a big family .  Anyways, Hank, I wouldn't be surprised if some Nerdfighters started being our Secret Siblings .  Nerdfighters can do anything . Look, they can even spell Nerdfighters with pretzels . Part three: Reading Rainbow .  Hank, I've recently been reading two very good and very different books .  First we have Michael Chabon's four-hundred and eleven page novel The Yiddish Policeman's Union .  Now if the world were filled with Michael Chabon geeks instead of being full of Harry Potter geeks, everyone would be like,  " No you say it CHAY-bun .  "   " No, you say it Shuh-BAHN .  "   " No, you say it SHAH-bun .  "  Anyway, Hank, this is a great book, but as an added bonus it's very similar to the color of my wall . Secondly, we have Eileen Cooper's thirty-two page book, The Golden Rule .  It's like the cutest book ever written about the Golden Rule !  As an added bonus, both of those books adhere to the In Your Pants rule .  I mean, The Yiddish Policeman's Union In Your Pants ?  What kind of union are they having in there ?   And the Golden Rule In Your Pants .  .  .  I mean obviously, do unto other's pants as you would have them do unto your pants . Part four: Reading Rainbow Redux .  Hank, for the first time, I am about to read the finished copy of a book called An Abundance of Katherines which was written by me .  I have to read this book for a top secret reason that I can't even tell you, but it means that I have to break for the first time, my unbreakable vow never ever ever ever ever to read books that I have written once they're published .  Since it was published, I've never read  Looking for Alaska except to read little snippets at book stores . There are two main reasons why I never read my own books .  First, I already read them a bunch of times before I published them .  Second, once they're published there's no way that I can change them, so everything that I discover that I dislike is like, horribly painful .   But I absolutely have to reread  Katherines now, so I'm trying .  I'll let you know if I still like it . Part five: Songs .  Hank, I don't know what your song is gonna be about tomorrow, but I do know one thing .  Someday, somewhere, you must write the song that was suggested by Nerdfighter Nate Junglepants .  Nate Junglepants suggested that you write a 1960's-style protest song that's about why ninjas and pirates need to put away their mutual hatred for each other to bring about world peace .  Hank, I think this is a great idea, because someone has got to do something about the endless cycle of recrimination and violence that goes on between ninjas and pirates .  I mean, Hank, ninjas and pirates are like the Sunnis and Shiites of hypothetical reality .  I mean, I would write the song myself, but I don't think I would do a very good job .  Uhm, it could be like,  " All we are saying, is give ninja-pirate peace a chance .  "  Yeah, I think you can do better than that . Part six: the outro .  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow . P . S .  You're back on the odd days .                  
Good morning Hank, it's Thursday August second and I'm in an airport because I am on my way to Los Angeles .  I'm going to the conference of a society of writers .  I like conferences and I like writers .  I'm iffy on societies, but I can get behind them .   So I'm pretty excited about this thing except the only problem is that instead of having it right here in beautiful Indianapolis, Indiana, they for some reason insist on having it in Los Angeles .   Hank, congratulations on another brilliant song .  I thought that one might have been your best yet .  It actually inspired me to do a song of my own .   It's quite jokes, it's quite jokes in here, although running my AC is screwing up the atmosphere, it's quite jokes .   Hank, as has been pretty well documented on this video blow, I'm not a big fan of traveling via airplane .  In fact there's only two things I like about airports; pretzels and video games .  What I like about pretzels is that they're not so much a food in it of themselves so much as they're a vehicle for salt and butter .   Hank, there was one other part of your song that I thought was really interesting, and that was the part where you started to make out with the fan .  When you were making out with that fan, I kept thinking to myself,  " Don't stick your tongue out, don't stick your tongue out, don't stick your tongue out, don't stick your tongue out, don't stick your tongue out "  and I'll tell you why .  It's because when I was in college I saw a guy stick his tongue into a fan and it hurt .  At the time, we were playing a game of  " I Will "  .  Hank, I don't know if I ever told you the rules of  " I Will "  but it basically went like this; I would say,  " I will lick the cat for " - would you stop talking heightened security measures guy- I would say .  .  .  uh .  .  .   " I'll lick the cat for five dollars "  and then someone else would say,  " I'll lick the cat for four dollars "  and so on until someone licked the cat for a nickel .  I can't remember the exact price we ended up paying the guy who stuck his tongue into the box fan, but it was something in the neighborhood of, like, eight dollars, and so he was all like, he was all like,   and then when he got done screaming he was like,  " gimme my eight dollars guys "  .    And speaking of potentially having to stick your tongue into a box fan, somebody's about to get punished, and tragically, that somebody is not you .  The extraordinarily hard working nerdfighters in My Pants have found a textual communication that I apparently made to you on January 11, 2007 .  The actual textual communication was something like,  " Hank, you should feel free to edit this "  .  If I had said  " Hank should feel free to edit this " , I would've been fine .  It's the  " you "  that killed me .  Stupid !   By the way, I'm in Denver now, but it's the exact same because, uh, all airports everywhere are the same .  It's like they all call each other and say,  " Hey, did you get the airport concrete ?  "   And all the airport authorities are like,  " You guys got the gray walls ?  Everybody got the gray walls ?  The, uh, the silver window panes ?  Good .  "   Anyway, Hank, I look forward to reading everyone's punishment suggestions .  Remember, if The Yeti vetoes it, I don't have to do it, and I'll see you tomorrow .                 
'Hi Hank ! '    It's Wednesday .  This is what I look like when I finish mowing the lawn .   I hate it .  I hate it so much .  I mean, I know it'd be one thing if I was working hard for something I believe in, but I'm working hard for something I hate- GRASS .   Ahhhheewwww I'm so gross; I have to take a shower .   Heh, I feel much better .  By the way Hank, the other person who said hello to you was nerdfighter extraordinaire Kelly Fineman .  So about .  .  .  hey bookshelf background !  Nice to see you again .  How you guys doing ?  Everybody still cataloged ?  Yeah ?  We got some reference, we got some general Christianity over here .  .  .  down here we got some child prodigies .  PERFECT .   Hank, I know you said I should just get rid of all the grass on our property, and it does definitely .  .  .  I just said property funny .    And it does bother me that we spend all of this water and all of this energy in order to maintain a lawn that I only walk on when I am mowing it .  .  .    But unfortunately for me, the only thing that I hate more than wasting water and energy and time mowing a lawn .  .  .  is being ostracized by my peers .  .  .  and I know that's not very nerdfightery of me !   .  .  . but it's a fact .  I just can't bear the thought of all of the people in this neighborhood hating me .  I mean, they're already kind of dubious about us .  .  .   So until I can gather up some nerdfighter courage, I'm going to keep mowing the lawn .   Incidentally Hank, do you know the difference between regular cupcakes and nerdfighter cupcakes ?  Instead of containing a lot of sugar, nerdfighter cupcakes contain a lot of awesome .   Now .  .  .  about the ex-girlfriends .  When I did this .  .  .    none of the stuff I was thinking was very funny, so I didn't want to say it .   But since you called me on it, I'll explain it- what I was thinking, was that, uhh, I spent all of these years being really mean to my ex-girlfriends .  You know, because they dumped me, and the manners in which they dumped me were kind of seemingly excessively cruel .    But now when I look back on it, it doesn't seem like this dichotomy, where I was good, and they were bad, and I stayed with them, and they left me .  .  .  It seems more like-thank God I ended up with the Yeti !    And maybe they've been through enough, because what I've realized is just because you date someone for 2 and a half years, and dump them over Instant Messenger, doesn't mean that it's entirely your fault that the relationship ended .  In fact, you could make an argument that I wasn't a great boyfriend until I met the Yeti .   And now, you could make the argument that I'm not a great husband, although I did just mow the lawn !   And that is one husbandly duty .   Okay, onto another topic .  Hank, in the past few days, there's been a lot of talk in my pants about whether or not people in other countries, and people under the age of 18, should be able to contribute to Daniel Biss' campaign fund .   Hank, I tend to agree with you that people under 18 should be allowed to contribute and in general, contribute more to the political process .   And initially, I thought I agreed with you that people from other countries should not be allowed to, you know, give money to American political campaigns .  Because it's not like, we would want, say, the Netherlands in the American political process .    But then I realized, I DO want the Netherlands to run the American political process .  They're a lot better at it than we are .  I mean, Hank, there are more murders on American TV in a week than there are actual murders in the Netherlands in a year .    .    But Hank, who knows .  Maybe my optimism about the American political experience will change- specifically the most reasonable way it might change is if people elected Daniel Biss to be the state representative in his district in the state of Illinois .   Contributions to Daniel's acabalu page made before midnight Eastern Time on Friday will count toward my punishment, as will contributions from people outside the United States and from minors to the fund to decrease World Suck .   Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Friday, August 10th . Hank, we're in western North Carolina at the Yeti's family reunion .  That's why we're walking through the woods !  I guess it's also kind of our family reunion since our parents are here too .   But .  .  .  you're not here, so it's not that much of a family reunion .  Incidentally,   everyone's always like 'why does he keep doing this ?  Why is he always doing this ? ' That's just what I do .  It's one of my things ! Hank, I'm on the trail of the Yeti and I think I'm getting close .  Look, it's a Yeti footprint .  Hank, I think I see the Yeti again !  There she goes !  There she goes !  Ahh !  We missed her ! Look Hank, it's vistacular .  .  .  Sometimes I wonder what my experiences would be like if I didn't mediate all of them through a video camera . Hank, the house in which we are staying has a lot of bears .  There's a silhouette of a bear that presumably means  " Bears welcome here, "  which they are not .  There are bears in easy chairs .  There's bears on the welcome sign .  There's a bear clinging desperately to this wooden pole .  There's a stuffed bear in a little wicker chair .  Little Christmas ornament bears with no Christmas tree .  There's even a bear on a swing . I can't help but think that all this cute fetishizing of bears is making the bears mad .  If there's one distinct group of organisms I don't want to anger, it's bears .  They'll be all like,  " I am not a little guy that swings in a swing .  I am a huge five hundred pound animal .  My claws could tear out your heart .  I like to eat berries .  Lots of berries .  "  You don't want to mess with those guys, Hank .  They can eat berries like you read about . Hank, in other news it looks like I'm going to be eating a blenderized Happy Meal while waxing two of my legs .  Or maybe, If you're kind, two of my arms .  Although on the other hand, do I want to have stubbly arms ?  I don't know . Hank, to be completely honest, there's no way I ever thought that I was going to have to do that punishment because I didn't think that that many people would give money to Daniel's campaign .  I thought it would just be kinda funny and I could laugh about it while I was comfortably eating peeps and waxing a mere one of my limbs .   But it turns out that I underestimated the nerdfighters .   And let that be a lesson to you everyone, never underestimate nerdfighters . Hank, I've thought a lot about eating a blenderized Happy Meal and every time I think about it it makes me do this   .  So I'm looking forward to it .   But anyway, Hank, I'm still happy that my punishment can do something to decrease world suck and hopefully something to get Daniel elected .  I'd also like to remind everyone that they have until midnight tonight to give money to Daniel's campaign and remember, it's not the amount of a contribution, it's the number of people who contribute .  Also, it's the amount of the contribution .  By the way, Hank, in going over the donor list I couldn't help but note a glaring absence .  YOU .  You've got till midnight, Hank .  Get on it . Hank, I hope outside is treating you as well as it's treating me, and I'll see you tomorrow .  NO .  I'll see you on Monday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Thursday August 16th which means that I only have eight days left to be young .  Hank, today I'm rocking the Albino Squirrel Preservation Society coming to you out of Texas .   Everyone knows that albino squirrels are the nerds of squirreldom so it falls to us to protect them .   I've got a lot of hair .  It's almost like I'm making up for not having hair somewhere else .   Hank, before we get to the end of my punishment I'd like to do a kind of two part retro edition of Brotherhood 2 . 0 .   Retro Item Number One: The Brotherhood 2 . 0 Book Club is back !  That's right Hank, after months of delay I am finally reading Deep Economy by Bill McKibben .  Review to come shortly but so far I like it .   Retro Item Number Two: The Evil Baby Orphanage .  Hank, the Evil Baby Orphanage is like Evil Baby Rasputin: no matter how hard you try, you can't kill it !  Just a little joke for all the Russian History nerdfighters .   Hank, I don't know if you know this but yesterday was the anniversary of the death of noted Evil Lady Baby Queen Ranavalona .  Hank, I don't want to brag, but I just said  " noted Evil Lady Baby "  really really well .  This news came to my attention via Secret Sisters Katie and Liz who made Queen Ranavalona a wonderful Happy Deathday cake !   Hank, I haven't had a lot of time to think about the Evil Baby Orphanage in the last couple of months because I've been doing nothing but working on 'Paper Towns', but Hank, I want you to know that I still think the Evil Baby Orphanage has tremendous potential as some kind of creative project and I think that the nerdfighters are doing a great job in My Pants of talking about it .   On to my punishment !   Hank, in order for you to understand the difficulty involved in me licking a cat, I have created this helpful diagram .  Over here you will see people in the world you own a cat .  Over here you will see people I know and here you will see people in Indianapolis .  Does that say  " people "  or  " poople "  ?    As you can see, Hank, there are some people in Indianapolis who I know, and there are some people in Indianapolis who own cats and there are some people I know who own cats, but there is no-one I know in Indianapolis who owns a cat .   And therein lies the dilemma .   Fortunately for us, Hank, there is a fourth circle: nerdfighters !  There are nerdfighters who live in Indianapolis, there are nerdfighters who own cats and there are nerdfighters I know !  It's the ultimate circle !  So thanks to the generosity of nerdfighter Maire, or Mary   .  That nerdfighter, who is of course made of awesome, hooked me up with some people in Indianapolis who have a cat named Toby, which I am going to go lick this afternoon .   Hank, I think it says something about the great people of the city of Indianapolis that perfect strangers like Jen and Dave would welcome me into their home and let me lick their cat .   Hank that's Toby .   And here are Toby's wonderful owners !   
Good morning, Hank, it's Monday, August 20th and somebody needs a haircut .  Hint: it's me .  It's the weirdest thing, Hank, you're walking around for a couple weeks and you're thinking  " Should probably get a haircut in the next week or so, you know, just kind of preventative medicine kind of haircut .  "   And then one day, you wake up, and you're like  " Oh .  Right .  This is why they called me Muffinhead in middle school .  "  Hank, I can't tell you how grateful I am that we never attended the same middle school at the same time because, frankly, I don't think you could have handled the shame .  Hank, I have a very interesting piece of news .  Our secret brother Tom used a machine that involves some magic and a lawnmower in order to calculate the midpoint between you in Missoula and me in Indianapolis, and it turns out that the midpoint between us is a town called Winner, South Dakota .  Winner, South Dakota, Hank !  As in the opposite of Loser, South Dakota !  Anyway Hank, I got to thinking that you and me and the Nerdfighters could potentially pool our resources and purchase the town of Winner, South Dakota and then build a kind of nerdfighting commune there .  Hank, I only know two things about the hypothetical Nerdfighter Commune: number one, all the buildings would be made out of sustainable materials, and number two, everyone would sleep in race car beds .  So I went online to Wikipedia to see if Winner, South Dakota is small enough for us to potentially consider purchasing .  Hank, according to Wikipedi- wiki .  .  .  wiki .  .  wiki .  .  .  Wikipedia, Winner, South Dakota has a population of just over 3,000 people .  It's located in south central South Dakota, which is exactly like south central Los Angeles, except different in every possible way .  Also according to Wikipedia, Winner, South Dakota has a fascinating history .  Hank, I'm going to read this to you, and I swear I'm not making it up !   " No one knows the exact date that Winner became Winner .  Some claim to know, but they are liars .  The territory where Winner now resides was first discovered by white people in 1726, when French fur trader and magician extraordinaire Jean-Pierre Sebastien a la King crossed the Missouri River on his infamous search for the elusive, non-existant giant red-footed prairie beaver of the Dakotas .  Although a terrible fur-trader and magician, Jean-Pierre managed to make a fortune in the canned chicken and biscuit industry before dying of botulism in 1743 .  "  Oh, Wikipedia .  Will you ever tell me true facts ?  Hank, in other news, have you noticed all the amazing things the Nerdfighters have been doing lately ?  Nerdfighter   is designing awesome Nerdfighter animations like this one, secret brother Todd created a fantastic intro for all the secret siblings to use, we got a bunch of Nerdfighters helping to build the wiki .  .  .  wiki .  .  .  w-wiki .  .  . wookie .  .  . wookie !  Plus, we've got hundreds of people sending in Nerdfighter pictures like this and this and this and this and this !  We've got so many Nerdfighters In My Pants that sometimes the site goes down-- Hank, I know you're working on that, and I appreciate it .  A group of Nerdfighters led by   are starting a humiliation for charity project that I think is awesome .  Plus, Tobias is still rocking the songs and all the old-school Nerdfighters are doing a great job of integrating all of the new-school Nerdfighters so that everyone collectively finds that they are made of more awesome than they ever thought possible .  Hank, I don't want to exaggerate the effect that this project is having on my life, but it's sort of starting to make me believe in humanity again .  I find myself saying and thinking outlandishly optimistic things lately, like I'll be staring outside at this weather and I'll say  " Wow, that's gonna be really great for the plants !  "  I mean, honestly, Hank, this is really the first time that I've started to feel like the world contains more Nerdfighters than nerd haters .  My entire life, I've thought that I was best suited for the town of Loser, South Dakota, but I'm starting to change my mind .  I find myself thinking  " maybe Nerdfighting is for winners .  "  I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Wednesday August 22nd and I don't really have anything to talk about today .  The only thing my brain is able to think about today is Paper Towns and I'm not allowed to talk to you about Paper Towns because I can't give away the plot or the characters .   And so, ah ah mmm um ah .  Today Hank, I'm like someone who's finally understood the concept of zero, I got nothin' .   Hank, the thing about using awesome to fuel your life instead of using like gasoline, or hatred, or whatever it is that nerd haters use, is that awesome burns extremely bright, but it also burns fast .   And so, when you're out of awesome you just kinda need some time to recover and, I don't know if you know this Hank, but we have to make these videos everyday .  So I apologize in advance for being low on awesome .   Alright, um three things .  The first thing is gonna be hair, the second thing is gonna be the website, and the third things is gonna be something funny that I haven't thought of yet .  Item one: hair .   The best comment from yesterday,  " Hank I think your hair has a horcrux .  "  Harry Potter jokes are so jokes .  It occurs to me that the only problem with adjectiving the word  " jokes "  is that when you are trying to say that a joke is the word jokes, it become grammatically confusing .  Then again, it's not like that completely unprecedented in the English language .  I mean, you know,  " I shot the bear and then I had to bear the bear back to camp .  "  By the way Hank, bearing a bear, extremely difficult for most Nerdfighters .  Also in hair news, Nerdfighter Allie is going to shave off her hair if she raises $1000 for the Muscular Dystrophy Association .  You can more info about that here, or possibly here, or maybe even there .  Also, Nerdfighter Milina Rhona shaved off all of her hair except for a mohawk and gave it to Locks of Love which I think is pretty awesome .  T  hing two, the website .  Hank as you know, the website isn't working so well right now .  We tried to do this thing where instead of running our servers on electricity we were running them on awesome, but it turns out that we didn't have quite enough awesome so the website is going down constantly throughout the day .  Unfortunately we've had to temporarily suspend the Wiki Wiki Wookie and there may be a couple of days where everyone is gonna have to go to YouTube to watch the videos .   But, in the long run, Brotherhood2 . com is gonna be back, it's gonna be more awesome, My Pants is gonna be on fire, and everyone's gonna be happy Hank, even if right now they're kind of mad .   Thing three, um something funny I haven't thought of yet .  Um uh mm, in your pants jokes !  Hank, in your pants jokes are like the family in Tuck Everlasting, they never get old .  What do we got over here ?  How Did They Die in your pants, probably of suffocation .  Then we've got Susan Sontag's classic, Regarding the Pain of Others in your pants .  Hank, I do think it's important for all of us to acknowledge how much people have been hurt in our pants .  As You Like It in your pants, oh Shakespeare you dirty dog .  We've got The Poems of Robert Frost in your pants .  Of course, there's that American classic, Two roads diverged in a yellow wood, and I took the pants leg less traveled by .   And of course Hank, we have a title for those of us who forget to zip our fly, The Escapist in your pants .   And finally Hank, we have Virginia Euwer Wolff's classic, Make Lemonade in your pants, which is, of course, a novel in verse about bed wetting .   Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday, September 4th, and I'm extremely tired--I think I got bit by a tsetse fly .  Hank, in your video of last Friday when you were sitting ~right here~, in ~my~ house, you had the audacity to imply that I wasn't proud of the band name Moe and the Lawns, which is the greatest band name I ever came up with in my whole long and storied history of coming up with hypothetical band names !  Hank, as you know, I'm not a talented musician: I can't sing; I don't have any rhythm; and I can't play any musical instruments .   But I always really ~wished~ I could be in a band, and so I devoted all of my energies to thinking up band names, of which Moe and the Lawns is unquestionably the greatest .   But Hank, it occurs to me that you might not even know many of the names I've come up with for the hypothetical bands I would be in if I didn't suck at music .  For instance, did you know that if I was in a death metal band, it would be called Barry and the Hatchets ?  Or that my humorous punk rock band would be called Kelly and the Rippas .  If I had a band that covered, like, old fifties' rock standards it would definitely be called Chester and the Drawers .  Hank, interesting trivia tidbit about me: I was fully 25 years old when I found out about  " chest of drawers "  as a phrase .  Someone was talking to me and they were, like,  " Do you have a nice chest of drawers in your room ?  "  and I was, like,  " Do you mean 'Chester dra--' ohhh, 'chest of drawers,' yes !  Of course !  "  Hank, if I was the bass guitarist for a children's literature rock band, we would totally be called Judy and the Blumes .  My art rock band would be called Schrodinger and the Maybe Dead Cats .  Okay, like, if Michael Jackson made a comeback, and he decided to make a comeback with a band, and for some reason he decided to include ~me~ in that band, I would want us to be called Jacko and the Lanterns .  My gospel group ?  Holly and the Lujahs .  Okay Hank, that's all the blank-in-the-blanks that I got, but I do have some other band names that I'm pretty fond of .  For instance, if I had a ska band, do you know what it would be called ?  The Moby Moby Dicktones .    It doesn't even--it doesn't even make any sense, I just like saying  " The Moby-Moby Dicktones .  "  Moby Moby Dicktones, Moby Moby Dicktones, Moby Moby Dicktones, Moby, Moby, Dicktones !  If I was a rapper, my rap name would be MC One Thousand One Hundred, or, in roman numerals, MC MC .  Roman numeral jokes ?  Anybody ?  Anybody, MC MC ?  No ?  Okay .  If I was in a noise band, we'd be from California, and we'd be called All Loud on the Western Front .   And if I was in a nerdcore band, we'd be called Negative Suck Cubed Equals Awesome .  Speaking of Negative Suck Cubed Equals Awesome, Hank, great job turning the suck of all the Brotherhood2 . com problems into the awesome that is the new Brotherhood2 . com !  The Wiki-Wiki-Wookie is back; My Pants are on fire; and the site isn't going down, except maybe, like, a couple times late at night--and only then for a minute, so just be patient !  Hank, thanks to you and Katherine for visiting us last week; The Yeti and I had a great time .  I've gotta go stick my head in a vat of cold water to try wake up, but I'll see you tomorrow, SINGING, yes !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Thursday, September 6th .  I'd like to congratulate you on another great song; although as one commenter pointed out,  " I'm kind of scared of the dark side of Hank Green .  "  I mean seriously, Hank, the last time I saw you that angry, I was learning that being the older brother isn't necessarily the same thing as being the stronger brother .  Some people were terrified of your homicidal mania, but not me, Hank; I know better .  You're just trying to toughen up your image; it's like when Britney Spears released  " Toxic .  "  I do, however, have one small criticism of your song, Hank .  Scorpion's fatality was clearly taking off his mask and then breathing fire so that you become just bones; Subzero's fatality was the ripping off of the spine .  Duh !  Hank, the vitriolic hatred for Hummers you expressed in your last video reminded me of something--The Brotherhood 2 . 0 Book Club !  That's right, Hank, like jeans with high waists, the Indonesian economy, and the acting career of John Travolta, the Brotherhood 2 . 0 Book Club is back !  I've just finished reading Deep Economy, by Bill McKibben, the book that you assigned me back in, like .  .  .  February .  Hank, I really did like the book .  It argues that ~more~ is no longer equivalent to ~good~, and that economic growth as we've always constructed it has stopped giving us what we're looking for .  I have to say, Hank, that it is hard for me to imagine a world that doesn't rely upon economic growth to determine success .   But McKibben makes a pretty compelling argument that by doing this, we're really screwing ourselves for the future .  There was one thing right at the beginning of the book that really got to me that I want to talk about .  McKibben pointed out that if people in China owned cars at the same percentage that people in America own cars, then the total number of cars in the world would immediately double .  I went ahead and I did some math--actually I didn't do the math; I called Daniel--and I found out that if everyone in the world owned cars at the same rate that Americans do, then the amount of cars in the world would be, like, five times greater than what it is now .   And our atmosphere couldn't handle that much carbon dioxide .  In very short order, human life would become impossible .   And that's what troubles me, Hank .  That's what troubles me about my whole life in Indiana, as compared to my life in New York .  When I lived in New York I had an apartment--I think everyone should have a safe place to live .  I had access to excellent public transportation, which I think everyone should have .  I had places where I could afford to buy food, which I think everyone should have .   And I had a good independent bookstore, which I think everyone should have .  So when I lived in New York, all of the things I had were things I think everyone should have .  Now that I live in Indianapolis, I own a car .   But I don't want everyone to own a car, because then, you know, I would die .  That would suck .  So if the world would be destroyed by everyone owning a car, how come I feel entitled to own a car ?  That bugs me .  Hank what I kept think when I was reading Deep Economy is that I want to be living a life that everyone could live without the world ending .  I mean, there's something pretty sick about living in a world that's dependent upon an underclass .  Anyway, Hank, thanks for the recommendation; I definitely enjoyed Deep Economy, even though it didn't contain any, like, love stories, or car chases, or metaphors about existential isolation like most of the books I like .  I'm also excited to announce the next book in the Brotherhood 2 . 0 Book Club, which is going to be .  .  .  Paper Towns, by me !  Hank, Penguin won't be publishing Paper Towns until September of next year, but I'm going to make a draft of the book available to you and to Katherine in a couple of weeks .  How I'm going to do that without textually communicating with you remains to be seen, but I'm sure I could figure something out .  I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Hank, people are looking at me funny !  Good morning Hank, it's Monday .  I'm going to give you two clues to my location and then you're going to have to guess it .  Hint number 1:   Every time I eat one of those pretzels I'm like  " this is what dog biscuits taste like to dogs .  "   And hint number 2:   .  That's right, Hank, I'm in yesterday's airport of yesterday, the Indianapolis international airport !  I don't know why they call it international .  Maybe they think Wisconsin's a foreign country .  Hank, a lot of people concluded from one of my videos last week that I was finished with Paper Towns, which is tragically not the case .  In point of fact there's still about six months of work left to do on it .   But I'm only seven days away from turning in what is hopefully going to be the biggest revision to the book .  After that I thought I would show it to you and Katherine to see what y'all think .  Hank, I always like to spend the last week before I turn in a revision in a quiet place where I can do nothing but think about and work on the book .  So this time I'm going to Orlando, Florida, our old stomping grounds, because that's where the book is primarily set .   But aside from driving around and making sure that Winter Park High School still looks like Winter Park High School, I'm not going to be doing anything other than working on the book .  That means that I'm not going to have a lot of time for Brotherhood 2 . 0 videos but some Nerdfighters made a suggestion that I really really like which is that maybe on Wednesday and Friday I can read to you some excerpts from Paper Towns .  This would be helpful to me because it would be nice to get some feedback while I'm still working .  Anyway, Hank, I hope that's ok with you .  Hey, Hank, do you see that guy over in the corner on the left ?  I think that guy's my pilot, and he is really, really, REALLY good at Ms .  Pac-Man .  I mean, he's so good at Ms .  Pac-Man that he actually got to the part where after sixty-five years of marriage Ms .  Pac-Man goes to Mr .  Pac-Man's funeral .  She cried delicious little dots .  Anybody, Ms .  Pac-Man jokes ?  No ?  Too old for the audience ?  Ok .  Hank, because I'm going to Orlando to work on Paper Towns I'm traveling pretty light .  I've got nothing but a change of clothes, the computer, and my old friend Walt Whitman .  Alright, Hank, we're gonna close it out with some poetry .  Have you practiced so long to learn to read ?  Have you felt so proud to get to the meanings of poems ?  Stop this day and night with me and you shall possess the origin of all poems .  You shall possess the good of the earth and the sun .  There are millions of suns left .  You shall no longer take things at second or third hand, nor look through the eyes of the dead, nor feed on the specters in books .  Actually I really need everybody to keep feeding on the specters in books or else I'm out of a job .  All goes onward and outward and nothing collapses; I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good Morning Hank, it's Wednesday, September 12th, and I'm going to read to you from the first chapter of my new book, Paper Towns .  Quick caveat, this isn't going to sound exactly like it'll sound next year when it comes out because it's still pretty rough .  Your input is welcome .   Our subdivision Jefferson Park used to be a navy base .   But then the navy didn't need it anymore .  So it returned the land to the citizens of Orlando, Florida .  We decided to build a massive subdivision because that's what we do with land .  My parents, and Margo Roth Speiglaman's parents ended up moving next door to each other just after the first houses were built .  Margo and I, were two .   Before Jefferson Park was a Pleasant Ville, and before it was a navy base, it belonged to an actual Jefferson .  The Jefferson is question was this guy, Dr .  Jefferson Jefferson .  Dr .  Jefferson Jefferson has a school named after him in Orlando, and also a large charitable foundation, and the fascinating and unbelievable but true thing about Dr .  Jefferson Jefferson is that he was not a doctor of any kind .  He was an orange juice salesman .  When he became rich and powerful, he just went to court and had his first name changed from Jefferson, to Dr .  Capital D, lower case r, period .   Margo's parents were friends with my parents, and when we were little Margo and I would sometimes bike through the cul-de-sac-y streets to Jefferson Park itself, which was the hub of the subdivision's wheel .  I always got very nervous whenever I heard that she was about to show up on account of how she was the most fantastically gorgeous creature that God had ever created .  That afternoon she wore white shorts and a pink t-shirt that featured a green dragon, breathing a fire of orange glitter .  It is difficult to explain how awesome I found this shirt at the time .   So we were ten .  It was a steaming hot day in March and Margo and I biked to the park .  She always biked standing up; her arms locked as she leaned above the handle bars, her purple sneakers a rotating blur .  The sky was clear, but the air tasted acidic, like it might storm later .  At the time I fancied myself an inventor and after we locked up out bikes and began the short walk across the park to the playground, I told Margo about an idea I had for an invention called the Ringalator .  The Ringalator was this giant cannon that would shoot big colored rocks into a very low orbit, giving Earth the same kind of rings that Saturn has .  I still think this would be an excellent idea, actually, but it turns out that building a cannon that can shoot boulders into a low orbit is kind of complicated .   We were only a few steps inside the park when I began to sense that the world was out of order .  I'd been in that park so many times before that it was mapped in my mind, but I couldn't figure out what was different .  That still happens to me, I can sense changes but I can't identify them .  Someone's wearing a new pair of jeans, and I say  " Did you get a hair cut ?  "  .    " Quentin .  "  Margo said, quietly .  She was pointing .   And then I realized what was different .  There was a live oak tree a few feet from us; thick, and gnarled and ancient looking .  That wasn't new, but now, now a guy wearing a grey suit sat slumped against the trunk .  I may not be a master of observation, but I was able to deduce pretty quickly that the guy was dead, on account of how 1) he wasn't moving and 2) he was surrounded by a sizable amount of blood, which 3) seemed to originate from somewhere inside his mouth, which itself was 4) open in a way that mouths are generally not open .  Not to mention the fact that 5) there were quite a lot of flies involved in the whole scene .    " He's dead "  Margo said, as if I couldn't tell .  I took two small steps backward .  I remember thinking that if I make sudden movements, he might wake up and attack me .  Maybe he was a zombie .  I knew zombies weren't real, but he sure looked like a potential zombie .  As I took those two steps back, Margo took two equally small and quiet steps forward .    " His eyes are open "  she said .    " Margo, we gotta go home !  "   She looked at me and said  " I thought you closed your eyes when you died .  "   Hank, I'll finish reading this flashback on Friday .  I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Friday, September 15th, today I'm going to read a cut for time version of the second half of the first chapter of my new book, Paper Towns .  " Here's the thing: I found a dead guy .  Little adorable ten year old me and my even littler and more adorable play date found a guy with blood pouring out of his mouth and that blood was on her little adorable sneakers as she biked home .   And that's all very dramatic and everything, but so what ?  I didn't know the guy !  People I don't know die all the damn time !  If I had a nervous breakdown every time something awful happened in the world, I'd be crazier than a shithouse rat ! That night I went into my room at 9:00 to go to bed, because 9:00 was my bedtime .  My mom tucked me in, told me she loved me, and said,  " See you tomorrow .  "  And I said,  " See you tomorrow .  "  And then she turned off the lights and closed the door almost all the way .  As I turned on my side, I happened to see Margo Roth Spiegelman standing outside my window, her face almost pressed against the screen .  I got up and opened the window, but the screen stayed between us, pixelating her .  " I did an investigation, "  she said, quite seriously .  Up close I could tell that she had a little notebook and a pencil with teeth marks around the eraser .  She glanced down at her notes .   " Mrs .  Feldman from over on Jefferson Court said his name was Robert Morris .  She told me he lived on Jefferson Road in one of those condominiums on top of the grocery store, so I went over there, and there was a bunch of policemen, and they asked if I worked for my school paper, and I said that our school didn't have a paper, and then he said as long as I wasn't a journalist he would answer my questions .  He said that Robert Morris was 36, and he was a lawyer .  They wouldn't let me in his apartment though, but a lady named Juanita Alvarez lived next door to him, and I got into her apartment by asking if I could borrow a cup of sugar for my mom and then she said that Robert Morris had killed himself with a gun .   And then I said 'why ? ', and she told me that he was getting a divorce and he was sad about it .  "  " Lots of people get divorces and don't kill themselves, "  I said .  " I know, that's what I was thinking, so it can't be that, right ?  "  " I guess, "  I said .  I just wanted her to keep talking .  That small voice tense with the excitement of almost knowing things .  " I think maybe I know why, "  she said .  " I think maybe all the strings inside him broke, "  she said .  And then before I could think of anything to say, she reached up on her tiptoes and whispered,  " Shut the window .  " So I did . I thought she would leave, but she just stood there, watching me .  I waved at her and smiled, but her eyes seemed fixed on something behind me .  Something monstrous that had already drained the blood from her face .   And I felt too afraid to turn around and see .   But there was nothing behind me, of course, except maybe the dead guy .  I stopped waving, and sat down at the floor so that my head was as high as her head, and we just stared at each other from opposite sides of the window .  I don't remember how it ended, if I went to bed, or she did .  In my memory, it doesn't end .  We just stay there, looking at each other, forever . The next morning I took the screen out of that window, and hid it in the back of my closet, where it remains .  I took an elective in poetry my sophomore year because I heard that Margo was taking it .  By then we weren't friends really, because she was already the high priestess of Winterpark High School .  She was friendly to me, but I never really had anything to say to her really, except occasionally during classes .  The great surprise of that class was that I actually like poetry .  At least some of it .  There's this one poem we read called  " Howl " , and it starts out: " I saw the best minds of my generation, destroyed by madness .  Starving, hysterical, naked .  " I've never seen Margo starving, or hysterical, and God knows I've never seen her naked .   But somehow -- and this is why I like poetry -- those words still describe her as she stood outside my window .  Her blinkless blue eyes, starving, and hysterical, and naked, staring back at me .  I think she was still trying to piece it together - how the strings break, I mean - as she stared at me .  Margo always loved mysteries, and in everything that came afterward, I could never stop thinking that maybe she loved mysteries so much that she became one . Hank, I look forward to hearing the rest of your first chapter on Monday .   And then we return to the funny !                 
It's Tuesday September 16th .  Wait- Good Morning Hank, it's Tuesday September 18th .   Hank I really liked what you read yesterday and I thought it had great potential and I hope that one day you finish it .   And speaking of finishing, guess who finished a revision of Paper Towns ?  Hint: It's me !   Hank I'm so like, happy and relieved and excited- I just, I just wanna like DANCE .    YES !  I gotta get in shape, man,   Happy Dancing takes it out of me .   Hank in other news I've been thinking a lot lately about Chris Crocker, who made a YouTube video recently, in which big and apparently real tears are cried in defense of Britney Spears .   Hank, it's extremely difficult for me to explain to you how little I care about Britney Spears .  I mean, I feel bad for her in the sense that she is a narcissistic drug addict but I also think there are a lot of narcissistic drug addicts who don't have 50 million dollars, and so I choose to devote most of my feeling bad for narcissistic drug addict resources to those people .    But anyway, Hank, Chris Crocker feels bad for Britney and who am I to judge ?  I felt bad for Kurt Cobain when I was Chris's age .  Although in my defense every time Kurt Cobain coughed he spit out more talent than Britney Spears has ever possessed, so .  .  .    But Hank, the thing about Chris Crocker that people keep noticing is that Chris is a young, openly gay person, who doesn't do a very good job of fulfilling our expectations of how boys should act and talk and think .   And for some reason people either find that absolutely hilarious or completely offensive .   Hank I know a lot of people think that gender differences are in born and that men are from Mars and women are from Venus and there's no way to travel from Mars to Venus or from Venus to Mars .   But Hank the fact of the matter is that intersex and transsexual people have been part of the human species since the very beginning of the species .   And none of those theories about inborn gender explain anything about why Chris Crocker seems so incredibly funny or so incredibly outrageous or so incredibly offensive to everyone on YouTube .    And Hank I have to say that even Nerdfighters like you and me aren't completely immune to these feelings of giggly discomfort .  I mean it's a little weird that we think that Baby Girls like pink and that Baby Boys like blue, when in point of fact- babies don't like any particular color at all, I mean, as far as I can tell Hank, the main things that babies like are, uh:  One: putting stuff in their mouths .   And Two: Pooping .   So anyway, Hank, all of this was brewing in my mind and then over the weekend I was watching a video by one of our beloved secret siblings who pointed out that if you take a Hardy Boys book and you add 'In Your Pants' to the end of the title it becomes unusually hilarious an unusually high percentage of the time .   So Hank, without further ado I'd like to 'in your pants' some children's mystery novels .  First we're gonna go with Nancy Drew:  " The Clue in the Jewellery Box "  in your pants .   " The Silver Cobweb "  in your pants .   " The Invisible Intruder "  in your pants .    And now Hank, some Hardy Boys titles:  " The Twisted Claw "  in your pants .   " The Hooded Hawk Mystery "  in your pants .   " The Masked Monkey "  in your pants .   " The Shattered Helmet "  in your pants .   " The Tower of Treasure "  in your pants .   " The mystery of the Samurai Sword "  in your pants .   " The Stone Idol "  in your pants .   " The Four Headed Dragon "  in your pants .   " The Swamp Monster "  in your pants .   " Passport to Danger "  in your pants .   And of course:  " Trouble in the Pipeline "  in your pants .   Now Hank, maybe I'm looking into this a little bit too deeply but it seems to me that long before we hit puberty and the question actually becomes relevant, Miss Drew and the cousins Hardy are already asking us-  " what are you ?  Are your clues in a jewellery box that must be protected by silver cobwebs from silent suspects and invisible intruders ?  "   Or  " Is your mystery a claw or a hawk or a masked monkey or a helmet or a tower of treasure or a samurai sword or a stone idol or a four headed dragon or a swamp monster, full of lethal cargo that is a magical passport to danger, capable of immense foul play and dirty deeds- although sometimes there is trouble in the pipeline ?  "   Hank it seems to me that in a world that constructs gender so dichotomously so early in life that it may make sense that we would not necessarily feel entirely comfortable around people who don't fit into our gender expectations .   But Hank, it's not their fault that Nancy Drew and the Hardy boys are so incredibly weird .  I think it's fine to laugh at Chris Crocker because he cares too much about Britney Spears but I don't think that there's anything to be gained from laughing at him because he's different .   That's the laughter that nerdfighters everywhere have been on the wrong side of at least once in their lives and I for one don't think it's very jokes .   Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Goooood morning, Hank .  It's Thursdaaaaaay .  Hank, I don't really have any particular topic to talk about today because I'm still sort of, like, awash in the joy of having finished the revision of my book, so I thought I would draw out the intro as long as possible .  Hank, I'd like to begin today by congratulating you on your excellent song yesterday and also on your one-year anniversary with Katherine .  I don't exactly know what the proper thing to do for you on the occasion of your one-year anniversary is, but I do have some leftover Silly String .  Ahhh !    Ahh !  Ptech !  It's not really string, so much as it's, like, little dots .  Hank, I'd like you to observe what just came out of the bottle of Wacky String .  *shows* That's not Wacky String .  That's, like, Wacky Irregular Polygon .  Congratulations !  Hank, in your song yesterday when you were listing all of the ways that you're incredibly lucky, I couldn't help but notice that there was one kind of luck that you have that you failed to mention in the song .  I am, of course, specifically to how lucky you are to have a brother like me .  I'm not mad; it didn't hurt my feelings .  It's just something that I happened to notice .   But regardless of your cruel unwillingness to acknowledge the luck that is your brother, I'm so so so happy for you and Katherine after one year of marriage .  I mean, not only are you lucky to have married Katherine, I am also lucky that you married Katherine, because she's great .  Incidentally, Hank, it's not until you have a bunch of green stuff on your forehead that you begin to notice how much forehead that you really have .  Hank, in other news, we have a serious happy dance problem, and I don't know if you're aware of it .  Hank, as you know, we're currently collecting happy dance videos from all of the Nerdfighters .  Those happy dance videos can be sent to sparksflyup@gmail . com .  The deadline for these happy dances in October 1st .  Now, Hank, I'm not a mathematician, but I called Brotherhood 2 . 0's Resident Mathematician Daniel Biss, and he says that October 1st is potentially as little as 10 days away !  Now, Hank, we've gotten more than 100 happy dance videos, which is pretty incredible until you consider the fact that there are more than 6 billion people in the world, which means that there are literally more than 6 billion happy dances that are still unrecorded !  Now, Hank, I realize that not everyone has a camcorder, but you don't even need a camcorder to do this .  These days, all you really need is a phone .  So I hope all Nerdfighters everywhere work hard to send us their happy dances .  By the way, Hank, did you know that a group of Nerdfighters were on TV holding a sign outside the Today Show that said  " Nerdfighters "  ?  Also in Nerdfighter news, ever since I started watching the videos of our secret Australian niece and nephew, Natalie and Calvin, I always find myself saying,  " Nuwdfightuws .  "    I wanna have a kid .  .  . they're so little and cute .  It's like they have the same amount of awesome that's inside of a regular person, only it's compacted .  Into a tiny little adorable package .  Unfortunately, when the Yeti comes home and she sees all the congealed Wacky String on the carpet, I suspect that the Baby Date will be moved back at least a year .  I can just hear the lecture now:  " I'm not going to have a baby until my husband stops playing with Wacky String .  "   But I can't help myself, Hank .  It's so fun !  *giggles* Ohhhhh, I'm 30 .  Hank, again, happy anniversary, and I'll see you tomorrow .  End tag .  They never specifically say on the back of the Wacky String tube that you shouldn't spray it onto your own hair, but I can feel it eating away at my scalp .  It's like the Selsun Blue tingle, only .  .  . burnier .                 
Good Morning Hank it's .  .  .  Good Morning Hank it's Monday .   And when I say  " Good Morning "  I mean .  .  .   " ohhhhhh !  It's five O'clock in the morning and I'm miserable !   As you can tell from the speckled grey background, I'm in the Indianapolis airport, and Hank as you no doubt recall the one thing that I really like about the Indianapolis airport is its pretzels .    But I got here to early, and the pretzel stand isn't even open yet .  I'm a cranky Franky .   I hate you five O'clock Monday morning .  I hate you .    But Hank, as unhappy as I am, I'm not nearly as unhappy as the Yeti's going to be when she wakes up and learns that this morning, at four O'clock when I was packing to get ready to come here, I accidentally put her car key in my pocket .   Hank, why did I do that, seriously ?   Honestly Hank, I hope you don't take this personally, but I don't want to talk to you right now .   Hank, as you can tell by the slightly different speckled grey background behind me, I am no longer in Indianapolis .  I am now in Atlanta .   I seriously cannot believe that I left Sarah in Indianapolis without her car .  That's a terrible thing to do to a person, Hank .  It's a terrible thing to do to a person you love .   Wow Hank !  That footage was shot by a guy who was incredibly depressed !  Now I'm in a much better mood !   Hank, I flew to Boston today to hang out with M . T .   Anderson and work with him on this little project that we're doing .   It was really fun Hank, and it totally made my day, although, as days go, this was an easy one to make .   Plus, then he wanted to give you and the Nerdfighters a personal guide to the art in his living room .    " Hank, John's asked me to say something .  Uhh .  .  .  All I really have to say, uhh, is about my artwork, hanging on the wall of my apartment here .  Ummm, uh, here we have the Young Lovers .  Umm .  Here we have some, uh, young body parasites, and there we have the Central Nervous System .  Umm, the idea being of course, that umm, you should remember, as you sit there nestled with your loved ones, that all of these things are still living on you and, love may be found within you, but it is also found very much your mouth and your eyebrows .  There's loving going on all over your body .  It's a beautiful thing, Hank .  "    And then I got to my hotel, and I have to say Hank, after a really long day, this hotel makes me incredibly happy .  It's a hotel on the campus of MIT and the elevators are all like  " This is the future .  "   And the comforters have mathematical equations on them .   And the chairs appear to be made out of atoms .   Of course I suppose that one could argue that all chairs are made out of atoms .   Hank, I hope that They Might Be Giants was They Might Be Awesome, and I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Wednesday .  I have an unusually short period of time in which to shoot and edit this video today, so this one's gonna be built for speed, not built for comfort .  So Hank, it turns out the hotel at MIT, the hotel that I was staying at in Boston, is even more awesome and Nerdfighterly than even I knew about .  For starters, a lot of the light fixtures look a lot like circuit boards .  Also, in the lobby, they have a bunch of robots on display from MIT's artificial intelligence lab .  Not to mention the fact that the hotel itself is located at the corners of Sidney and Green .  Hank !  It's Mom !   And of course, like any awesome hotel, there's a reading room .  So I'm sitting in the reading room, and I'm just like, uh, reading, and then I leave the reading room to go meet M .  T .   Anderson, and on my way out, I happen to notice what the reading room is called .  Hank, it's the Norbert Wiener room !  Hank, I don't wanna get all fangirly on you, but I am a huge Norbert Wiener fan .  He is my favorite child prodigy of all time and they named the reading room at the hotel at MIT after him !  Yes !  Nerdfighters !  Hank, it might seem like I'm getting a little bit too excited about the whole Norbert Wiener thing, but you have to understand, I really like Norbert Wiener .  Hank, I originally became aware of the existence of Norbert Wiener when I was researching my second book, An Abundance of Katherines, shameless plug, and aside from having what is unquestionably the greatest Nerdfighter name of all time, it turns out that Norbert Wiener is also Made of Awesome in many other respects .  Hank, the thing about child prodigies is that, as impressive as they are intellectually as children, they often don't continue that intellectual growth into adulthood, and in fact, many famous child prodigies end up becoming really miserable solipsistic adults .  In fact, when Norbert Wiener was a kid, he was in college at Harvard, and he was at Harvard at the same time as another famous child prodigy named William James Sidis .  William James Sidis was even smarter than Norbert Wiener, and everyone was like, man, William James Sidis is gonna be like the most important intellectual figure in the whole history of the United States .  I mean, Hank, when the guy was thirteen, he was lecturing in astrophysics at Harvard .   But then, when William James Sidis became an adult, he stopped being interested in astrophysics, and he started being really really really interested in railroad traffic signals .   And then William James Sidis went on to spend like thirty years writing this, like, eight thousand page manuscript, that's everything you ever needed to know about railroad traffic signals, all the while working as a bookkeeper .   And then he died alone .  Anyway, Norbert Wiener was totally headed for the William James Sidis fate, except Norbert Wiener, like, rose up out of the ashes of his childhood genius and actually managed to become an adult genius .  He invented the field of cybernetics and he's this like hugely important applied mathematician and I just love him .  John Green is to Norbert Wiener as Chris Crocker is to Brittany Spears .  I mean, seriously, Hank, if Norbert Wiener were to rise from the dead and perform at the MTV Video Awards and everyone made fun of his performance because he was socially awkward and everything, I would totally cry .  One other really cool thing about Norbert Wiener ?  He looked a lot like Colonel Sanders .  Speaking of genius, Hank, thanks for sneaking us in to the They Might Be Giants concert .  They were, as always, awesome .  Also, your video yesterday reminded me of all those months when you were in high school when you always spoke with a fake British accent, and you kind of acted like it was your real, regular accent .  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning Hank; it's Friday .  Good morning Hank; it's Friday .  Good morning Hank; it's Friday .  Hank, you've just been greeted by Nerdfighters in Richmond, Virginia which, at least for a few hours last night, was the capitol not only of the former confederacy, but also the world capitol of Nerdfighterstan .  Nerdfigherland ?  Nerdfighteria ?  I don't know, let's leave it for the Nerdfighters to decide .  Anyway, I had a great time in Richmond Virginia .  I got to talk a lot about Walt Whitman .  I met a bunch of Nerdfighters who were doing a lot of cool, clever, Nerdfighting .  I even got to see a finger puppet theater rendition of the talk the Yeti and I had when I was telling her about the Boston car key fiasco .   " I can't believe you left her at the airport with all of the car keys .  "   " I know, I'm sorry .  Puff levels are extremely high .  "   " Hmph .  The only way I'll forgive you is if you come back from Richmond with a Brotherhood 2 . 0 doppelganger in my shape .  "   " Done !  I'm sorry, I love you .  "  That's actually a pretty good representation of how the actual conversation went, with the main differences being: a) I'm not a green lion b) The actual conversation occurred at five fifteen in the morning, and c) Five fifteen in the morning is not the ideal time to give a Yeti bad news .  So Hank, as you may or may not know, I have all these extravagant rituals that surround flying on airplanes that I use to keep the, umm, airplane from, you know, ahh, crashing .  For instance if I don't say the Lord's Prayer both when the plane is taking off and when landing, it might crash .  Also if I don't touch the outside of the plane while I am boarding it, it might crash .  Furthermore, while I am in the airport before I board the plane, I have to purchase something that textually discusses the commission of actual true crimes .  Now Hank I know this stuff may sound pretty crazy, but the results of it are pretty excellent so far .  I mean I've been on 500  .  .  .  don't talk to me about security right now, I'm trying to do my video .  I mean I've been on like 500 flights since I started all of these superstitions, and not one of them has landed prematurely .  By the way Hank, do you know when I knew I wanted to marry Sarah ?  It was when she told me about this book that she wrote when she was a kid about a plane crash, and you know what it was called ?  Thorton's Unscheduled Landing .  Anyway Hank, all that stuff about superstitions is a lead up to this: So when I was in the airport in Richmond, Virginia, I had to purchase like a newspaper or a magazine or something that discussed crime, and I happened to come across the Wall Street Journal .  Now Hank, usually I don't buy the Wall Street Journal on account of how its being purchased by Rupert  " I maintain my youthful countenance by drinking the blood of Nerdfighters "  Murdoch .   But I have to say, even though Rupert Murdoch built his media empire primarily by devouring the freedom and opportunity that have been the glory of our nation's past, the Wall Street Journal is kind of a good newspaper .  So Hank I'm just scanning the Wall Street Journal to make sure that there's a crime somewhere on the front page, and oh my god it's Daniel Biss .  Daniel Biss is in the Wall Street Journal today talking about all the money that he's raised online .   And they talk about us too since we helped him raise that money .  I mean Hank, that  " Hank "  is you .  Hank, this means that Brotherhood 2 . 0 contributed in some small way to Daniel Biss, a progressive candidate, being featured on the front page of a newspaper that is not noted for its liberal bias .  Nerdfighter evangelism is working .  Hank we may be three quarters done, but Nerdfighting is just gettin started .  Onward Nerdfighter soldiers, onward .  Hank I apologize for all the background noise, and I'll see you on Monday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday !  Hank, you were just greeted by people in Schaumburg, IL where I've been visiting .  Now I'm driving home and I'm filming Brotherhood 2 . 0 while driving, is that safe ?  No, it's not safe .   But if I don't film Brotherhood 2 . 0 while driving, when will I film it ?  I'm gonna get home right before midnight .  Observation: people in passing cars look at you funny when you're driving down the road holding a camera in front of your face .  Anyway Hank, I have to publicly state that I do not recommend video blogging while driving at 72 mph .  Unless you are 9 months into a 12 month project and have not yet missed a day in that project .  OK Hank, I just- hold on, merging traffic .  Ok Hank, I just passed an outlet mall and I was like,  " Who goes to outlet malls, anyway ?  "   And then there was a billboard that said,  " Come see the beef jerky outlet "  and I was like,  " OH MY GOD, MUST GET OVER, MUST GET INTO RIGHT LANE, MUST EXIT NOW !  "   But then there was tragically long line of semi trucks and I wasn't able to exit so I missed the beef jerky outlet .  I mean Hank, think of the beef jerky deals !  They should have more awesome outlets like that .  Maybe we can go to Winner, SD and build like a Nerdfighter Outlet Mall .  We could have like a  " Put Stuff on Your Head "  outlet that'd sell like 85,000 different items that fit on top of your head at whole sale prices .  Of course, we'd have to have a Peeps outlet .  They'd sell like every possible color of Peeps, stamped into every size and shape in the world .  By the way Hank, my life long dream: a Peep in the shape of me .   And of course there'd have to be a pants outlet .   And as I envision it, Hank, all the pants we sell at our pants outlet would be emblazoned with pineapples .  The pineapple would tell you that you've got a pair of real, legitimate, 100% Nerdfighter pants .  Why a pineapple, Hank ?  Because it's the international sign for  " Welcome .  "  It's like saying,  " Welcome to my pants !  "   And speaking of welcoming people to my pants, Hank, I'd like to thank you for getting the Brotherhood 2 . 0 forum  " My Pants "  back up .  Hank, I think I'm gonna go back to driving now .  So that's it for me in Indiana, where the road is flat, the day is long, and the corn is plentiful .  I'll see you tomorrow .  PS .  Hank, it occurs to me that we've gone 9 months in this video blog and we've never really disagreed .  So I'm thinking it's time for just a little tiny feud .  I don't even know what we could disagree about, but maybe if we could come up with something, then the Nerdfighters could pick who wins ?  All I know is this Hank: If we do have a feud, like a pirate at a ninja convention, you're gonna get pwned .  PPS .  Tomorrow's The Yeti's birthday .  Yaaay Sarah !  Oh and Hank, PPPS, like it says on my friend Katie's arm: Don't forget to be awesome .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Thursday, October 4th, and today's video comes in 4 parts .  Part 1: Stuff on your heads .  Hank, I'm totally in favor of the stuff on your heads idea .  In fact, it seems to be that this is one of the last great areas for human exploration .  I mean Hank, there's so many things that can go on a person's head and yet so few of them have actually been recorded being on someone's head, and that seems to me a grave injustice . Part 2: The Happy Dance project .  Hank, after your great song yesterday, you said that you wanted me to talk about the Happy Dance Project today, but I don't really have that much to say about the Happy Dance Project .  I mean I'll tell you one thing: We got a lot of happy dances .  Incidentally, if any Nerdfighters wanna send us a happy dance video late, they're welcome to do so, although we can no longer 100% guarantee that it will be part of the happy dance project, but we'd like to see it nonetheless .  Hank, having watched a lot of happy dance videos now, I can make one observation about happy dances, which is this: they tend to be either arm-centric or leg-centric .  Like your happy dance is definitely arm-centric .  It's like   or whatever .   And then my happy dance is very leg-centric . It's all about like kicking my knees up . I've noticed that not very many Nerdfighters have torso-centric happy dances, and I think that might be related to our general inability to, you know, bust a move .  Anyway Hank, I don't want to build up expectations too much, but when it finally does happen, the Happy Dance Project is gonna be pretty nerdtastic .  Part 3: Raccoons .  Hank, it's no secret how I feel about outside .  My relationship with outside is like a healthy relationship with an ex-girlfriend .  I want the best for outside .  When good things happen to outside, I'm happy .   And when outside suffers some misfortune, I feel sorry for outside .  I even enjoy spending time with outside on occasion, but I do think that there need to be boundaries .   And one of those boundaries, Hank, is that OUTSIDE IS NOT ALLOWED INSIDE MY HOME .  Which is why I'm very unhappy to tell you that I think that there are raccoons in my attic .   And when I say,  " I think " , I mean,  " I know, but am not yet willing to admit .  "  Anyway Hank, I've been in touch with some professionals on this issue, and I will keep you up to date on the Great Raccoon Hunt of 2007 .  Part 4: Feuds .  Hank, I'd like to suggest some topics about which we could potentially feud .  Here are some topics and my opinions on them:Dragons or fairies ?  Dragons . Love or money ? Love . I mean, like you're gonna pick money .  Actually, you might pick money . God you love money . Pirates or ninjas ?  Ninjas . Hank, I know that everyone in comments was like,  " Pirates pwn !  "  but seriously ?  Pirates ?  Pirates haven't been cool since Goonies . I mean is one of the best online series in history called  " Ask A Pirate "  ?  Green apples or red apples ?  Actually on that one, I'm for Fiona Apples .  Anybody ?  Puns ?  Puns ? No ?  No puns ?  Ok .  Lakes or rivers ?  Rivers .  And honestly, I don't even wanna be your brother anymore if you're not for rivers .  I mean, who's against rivers ?  It's like being against puppies . Speaking of which, puppies or kittens ? Puppies, although I have nothing against kittens, they're adorable .  Mary Kate vs .  Ashley ? Ummm, the one that doesn't have a cocaine problem, I guess ? Books vs .  movies ?  Books .  Text vs .  video ?  Text . Unicorns vs .  zombies ? Zombies, although I'm profoundly troubled by both . Hank, if none of those feud topics work, perhaps you could suggest some more .  I'm off to New York for the weekend, Go Cubs, I'll see you tomorrow .  Oh, and Hank ?  Don't forget to be awesome .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Monday October 8th .  As you can no doubt tell, puff levels are a little bit high .  I'm not even stressed out, I just need a haircut .  I mean seriously Hank, my hair is so puffy, that if it sampled a pop song and used a bunch of lyrics by the Notorious BIG, my hair could probably become a platinum selling rap artist .  Moving on .  Hank, in your video on Friday, you talked about potential topics for our feud .  One of the topics you discussed was the presidential election of 2008 .  You are mostly for John Edwards and I am mostly for Barack Obama .  Now Hank, I like John Edwards .  I think he's a bit of a schmuck, but I like him .  I could vote for him .  I could happily vote for him .  Right now I happen to like Barack Obama a little bit more, but it's early !  Hank, I believe that politics are important and that presidential politics are particularly important in this election cycle .   But I do think that smart and thoughtful people can have honest disagreements about presidential politics, which is why there are both Republican Nerdfighters and Democratic Nerdfighters .  Although Hank, as it happens, I do have some questions for supporters of Rudy Giuliani .  Question 1: You want Rudy Giuliani to be president ?  Question 2: Seriously ?  Question 3: Are you sure ?  Question 4: You know he doesn't even have the support of his kids, right ?  Question 5: Rudy Giuliani ?  ?  Question 6: As president ?  ?  Question 7: Of the United States of America ?  ?  Question 8: Really ?  ?  Question 9: Are you sure ?  ?  Question 10: Rudy Giuliani .  .  .  .  Huh .  Fascinating .  REALLY ?  ?  Anyway Hank, as important and interesting as it is to have a vigorous discussion about presidential politics, which we've been doing for months in my pants, there's something that I think matters just a little bit more right now: You prefer unicorns to zombies ?  !  Oh my god, I don't even know if you're my brother anymore !  What on Earth is there to like about unicorns ?  !  I knew you liked My Little Ponies when you were a kid, but I figured you got over that .   And as offensive as I find My Little Ponies  , they're not nearly as horrifying as those little beasts of suck !  Hank, you probably don't know this, but young adult authors have been feuding for months over the question of whether or not zombies or unicorns are preferable .   And I frankly cannot believe that a member of my own family is on the unicorn side .  Now don't get me wrong Hank, there isn't much to recommend zombies .  I mean yes, they inspired Shaun of the Dead, which yes, was an excellent movie .   And of course it's not like one of the best noise metal bands ever was called White Unicorn .   But all that said, Hank, I don't like zombies .  I mean they got flesh hanging all over them, they're not technically people .  .  .  You put a zombie up against a werewolf or a vampire, I'm gonna go against the zombie every time .   But a unicorn, Hank ?  A UNICORN ?  Unicorns are like all the worst parts of horses plus all the worst parts of rinoceri .  I mean seriously Hank, in all of fictional history, what have unicorns ever accomplished ?  Providing transport to the Care Bears as they travel to and from the Forest of Feelings ?  Hank, maybe it's just me, but I prefer the hard truths of zombies to the easy lies of unicorns .   And that goes for my presidents as well as my myths .  Hank, I hope you didn't forget to be awesome this weekend, and I'll see you tomorrow .  Although you know what I could get behind, maybe as a compromise ?  Zombified unicorns .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Wednesday, October 10th .  Hey, great video yesterday .  Your card metaphor was really effective, and it reminded me that, indeed, you should not elect someone just based on whether or not they would be a good poker player .  You have to vote for people at least in part because of which cards they're showing you; that is, what they say they're going to do and how they say they're going to get it done .  The only problem with your theory, Hank, is that it supposes that politicians are basically honest people, and will do the things that they say they will do, when in fact, politicians, as a class, are slightly more dishonest than poker players .  So many politicians would be like,  " Hey, look how good my hand is !  I'm going to avoid nation building !  I'm not going to engage in preemptive war !  I'm going to help the United States break its addiction to foreign oil !  "   And then you're like,  " Wow, the King of Hearts sounds like a really good card, "  and you elect it, and it's like,  " Just kidding !  I'm the Joker !  "  By the way, Hank, for helping me with that joke, I'd like to thank my 2004  " Vote Kerry "  playing cards .  So Hank, I think that's why it's important to pay attention to a politician's character, so you can be reasonably sure that they're going to do they things that they say they're going to do, and not become some belligerent anti-intellectual mean-headed Decepticon .  Named George Bush .   But anyway, Hank, all that said, I like John Edwards .  I am now equally for John Edwards and Barack Obama, so you've won that part of the feud .   But, my dear brother, there is one part of the feud you will never win .   And that is the fight between zombies and unicorns !  I think I've come up with a fool-proof argument against unicorns, however, unfortunately, that fool-proof argument is only for people who have read Harry Potter Seven, or who don't mind if I spoil it for them .  If you do not want to know spoilers for Harry Potter Seven, you should turn off this video right now .  Although, honestly, Hank, if there's anyone who's managed to avoid Harry Potter Seven spoilers for this long, I would like to find out where they live so that I can go there in the event of a nuclear holocaust, because it's the safest place in the world .  Okay, everybody who hasn't read Harry Potter Seven is gone, and I am now speaking only to Harry Potter nerds .  My argument against unicorns is entitled,  " Why Do You Guys Hate Tonks So Much ?  "  Hank, here's how it breaks down .  In order for any of the things that happened in Harry Potter to happen, Voldemort has to not die before Harry Potter starts .   And in order for that to happen, Voldemort has to drink the blood of unicorns, which allows him to live, but also makes him, like, half-man, half-evil, or whatever .  Ergo, Hank, unicorns are responsible for Voldemort's survival .  What I'm saying, Hank, is that unicorns saved Voldemort, and then Voldemort's war resulted in the death of Tonks .  Now, Hank, I am not an expert in Aristotelian logic .   But I'll say this: if unicorns led to Voldemort, which led to Tonks' death, and you like unicorns, you killed Tonks .  Not to mention Hedwig .  So, Hank, look, I'm not defending zombies .  I've never tried to defend zombies; they're disgusting .   But zombies didn't kill Tonks .  I mean, Hank, you say that if you were walking through a forest, you'd rather come across a unicorn than a zombie, and that seems logical until you consider that all they ever do in Narnia is impale people, and all they ever do in Harry Potter is save villains .  I mean, let's face it, Hank, unicorns are really killing people, whereas zombies are only good at making people undead .   And believe me when I say, Hank, that I don't want to be undead .   But I also don't want to be really dead, which is what unicorns make you .  Hank, I hope all is well in Montana, and I'll see you tomorrow .  P .  S .  Everybody send positive thoughts to secret siblings Adam and Ava and their cat .  P .  P .  S .  Hey, Hank, Looking for Alaska, or as it's known in Australia, Looking for Alaska, is a finalist for the Inkys Award .  Any nerdfighters under twenty-five can vote .  Link here, or maybe here, or possibly there .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Friday !  Yes ! Hank can you guess why I'm doing my happy dance ?  It's not because I no longer have to toil under the oppressive weight of my own hair, although that is nice .   And it's not because it's Friday, although I'm psyched about that too .  It's because noted American nerdfighter Al Gore just won half the Nobel prize for his work on climate change .  Yes !  I mean Hank, if I could have picked anyone in the entire world to win the Nobel Peace Prize it would have .  .  . Actually, actually it would have been us .  It would have been you and me and we would have won it for spearheading the Nerdfighter movement that lead to the complete end of global conflict .   But if I could have picked anyone else to win the Nobel Peace Prize it would have definitely been-Actually no, that would have been Oprah .  My second pick would have been Oprah .   But my third pick would have totally been Al Gore .  Hank, in honor of Al Gore's Nobel Peace Prize, I'm going to propose that you and I end our feud, and instead of feuding go back to the real business of Brotherhood 2 . 0, which is decreasing world suck .  Specifically, by re-carbon neutralizing Brotherhood 2 . 0 . Hank, as you probably remember, way back in April when the videos had been viewed a lot fewer times than they have now, I donated $2 . 75 to carbonfund . org to neutralize our carbon output .   But since then, our carbon output has gone up pretty considerably .   According to YouTube, our videos have been viewed 3,030,337 times .  Wow .  Now Hank, I'm going to say for the sake of simplicity that our average video is about 3 minutes long .  In point of fact, it's a little bit longer, but let's face it, not everybody watches to the end, so we're just going to say 3 minutes .  That means that 9,091,111 minutes have been devoted watching to Brotherhood 2 . 0 .  That's more than 151,516 hours .   And more than 6,313 days .  Hank, I know this is hard to believe, but trust me, I'm not making it up .  In total, people have spent more than 17 years watching Brotherhood 2 . 0 .  But Hank, in fact, people have spent even more than 151,516 hours with Brotherhood 2 . 0 because we also have to count the amount of time they spend commenting .  We've had a total of more than 17,000 comments on Brotherhood2 . 0 . com and more than 30,000 comments on YouTube .  Hank, for the sake of simplicity, I'm going to assume that it takes about one minute on average to write each comment .  Now I know that it takes more than a minute to write a truly nerdfighterly comment, but it takes much less than a minute to just re-post spam   . Hank, you also have to count all the action that's going on in My Pants, the Brotherhood2 . com forum .  Hank, there have been more than 116,000 posts in My Pants . So if you add all that stuff up, from the commenting, and the stuff going on in My Pants, and the viewing of the actual videos, you get .  .  . uh, hold on I have to look up the number . 154,244 hours !  The average computer takes about  . 11 kilowatts per hour to browse the internet, so that means that you have to multiply that huge number that I just mentioned times  . 11, which equals 16,966 kilowatts .  Now, it takes an average of 1 . 35 lbs of carbon in the United States to make 1 kilowatt of energy .  So that means I have to multiply that previous number by 1 . 35, which equals 22,905 lbs of carbon . Hank, that means that Brotherhood 2 . 0, as a video blog, has created more carbon in the last 9 1/2 months than the average Dutch person creates in an entire year .  Holy crap, Hank, we've created a carbon monster . Man, Hank, I really wish I was one of those people who believes deep down inside their hearts that their non-sustainable lifestyle is a right and not a privileged and that therefore global warming can't exist .   But I'm not one of those people, Hank, I'm a Nerdfighter, and that's why I'm spending $63 at carbonfund . org to offset Brotherhood 2 . 0's carbon emissions . Hank, I'd like to thank both Al Gore and you, for helping me to understand the environmental emergency that we're all facing .  I'll see you on Monday . By the way, global warming skeptics, I have a message for you: buy beachfront property .   And call me in 50 years .                 
Good Morning, Hank, it's Tuesday, October 16th, the second day of Teen Read Week !  By the way, Hank, when do you think Adult Read Week is ?  I bet if you look at the average teenager and the average adult, the average teenager has read more books in the last year than the average adult .  Now of course the adult would be all like,  " I'm busy, I got a job, I got stuff to do .  "  WHATEVER !  READ !  I mean, you're watching CSI: Miami .  Why are you watching CSI: Miami, when you could be READING CSI: Miami, the novelization ? Hank, in honor of Teen Read Week, I'm going to tell you something that I should have told you several months ago: I haven't been entirely honest with you .  You may remember that a few months ago, I got really excited about having cataloged my home library, and then I said I was giving you a tour of my cataloged home library .  Well, Hank, the truth of the matter is that I used a lot of movie magic, and ended up only giving you a very abridged tour of my home library .   But now I would like to give you the FULL tour of my home library ! We start out with poetry, Hank, you got your E .  E .  Cummings, your Shakespeare, your Dante, your Norton Anthology of Poetry, your Dorothy Parker, etc .  Then we've got Reference .  Reference, reference, reference .  I love the quote books, you know, I like almanacs .   Then you've got Islam and Christianity, separated by the wicker basket that keeps them from fighting with each other .  Down here, you've got books that are either by or about a member of our family .  Then you've got some foreign language books, wicker basket, then you've got Buddhism, Hinduism, over there, you've got some Judaism, and then you've got the social sciences . Over here, you've got graphic novels, plays, and stuff about how to write screen plays .    Then on the bottom shelf, because I'm not an egotist, you've got author copies of my books: Looking For Alaska, and An Abundance of Katherines .   And then finally in the office, over here at the bottom, we have all of my children's books . Then in the living room, we have foreign editions of Looking For Alaska, first editions of fiction by living authors .  First editions of books that are either by my favorite authors or by dead people .   Then down here, we've got southern studies, which includes that Brotherhood 2 . 0 classic: Will You Miss Me When I'm Gone ?    .   And then over here, we also have Science and Technology, which includes The Making Of The Atomic Bomb   . Here, we have art books, miniature chairs, more art books, more miniature chairs, and art history books .  My favorite art history book ?  Volatile Bodies   .   And then at the bottom we have history books . Here we have fiction by living authors, and then here we have some young adult literature, short story collections, mystery novels, food memoirs, and then down here is essay collections, literary criticism, and humor .   And then down here at the bottom, there's a special shelf, that for some reason only contains the diary that I kept when I was nine years old, and the book, Everything You Need To Know About The Goth Scene   . Hank, do you think we have time for a quick reading from my childhood diary ?  I think we do .  You're gonna have a tough time deciphering my handwriting, so let me read it to you:  " October 16th 1984 .  Today was the best day, my brother got sick .  "  Thus ends the entry ! Over here we have fiction by dead people, and books about boxing .  Here are some books about other sports and games, some books by Mark Twain, and the travel section .   And then of course finally we have my collection of first editions of books about conjoined twins .  Which is not even to mention my extensive collection of books about conjoined twins that aren't first editions, which are scattered about social sciences and fiction .  I don't wanna brag, Hank, but I've read more books about conjoined twins, than there are actual living conjoined twins in the world .  And that, Hank, is the truly exhaustive tour of my home library .  So happy Teen Read Week, Hank, and hooray for books, which NEVER forget to be awesome .  I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Thursday !  Hank, I'm in Dayton, Ohio, where the freight trains rumble through the streets and the convention center looks like an extremely large glass from The Pottery Barn .  Hank, as you can tell from the speckled grey walls behind me, I am in an airp-- wait, I'm not in an airport .  I'm in a hotel .  Before I started Brotherhood 2 . 0 I never really realized the ubiquity of the grey speckled wall .  Grey speckled walls are like the squirrels of commercial interiors .    By the way, Hank, do you want to hear an anagramming joke ?  Anagram joke ?  No ?  Yes ?  You do ?  Okay great .  You know why people in Dayton, Ohio use Google ?  It's because Dayton, Ohio anagrams to  " I don't Yahoo .  "  Nerd jokes !  Nerd jokes !  Nerd jokes !  So the reason that I'm in Dayton is that I'm at a library conference, and look what I got from Nerdfighter Library Woman .    Hank, it's a button that says  " Don't forget to be awesome .  "  Hey Hank, you know who didn't forget to be awesome yesterday ?  You .  Seriously Hank, that was my favorite Brotherhood 2 . 0 song ever .  I mean Hank, you made party blowers play the Tetris song .  So anyway Hank, I'm giving two presentations today and right now I'm between presentations which means that I'm kind of doubly nervous, because in addition to being nervous that I just gave a bad speech, I'm nervous that I'm about to give a bad speech .   And when I get nervous like this, there's nothing I can do about it, I mean what can I do right now to calm myself down ?  I mean I guess I could listen to Party Blower Solo .    Wow .  I feel so much less nervous now .  Hank, the party blower solo is like anti-anxiety medication without any of the side effects .  Hank, I don't want to overstate the importance of the party blower solo, but I think if we played it to enough people in Israel and Palestine, it could potentially result in a sensible two-state solution .  Can we just - maybe - one more time ?    It's coming .  Yes, here it is, here it is .    I have to tell you, Hank, that people walking by are looking at me a little funny right now .   But I don't care .  I'm completely un-self-conscious, because of the party blower solo .  Hank, in parting I have a question for you .  Is there a way to take the audio from the party blower solo and to make it into an mp3 file ?   And then would there be a way to implant that mp3 file into my mind ?   And if so is there any way that the mp3 file in my mind can play on a continuous loop for the rest of my life ?  Don't forget to be awesome, Hank .  I'll see you tomorrow .  Honestly it occurs to me that telling you not to forget to be awesome is like telling Tom Selleck not to forget his mustache .  PS Hank, three quick congratulations .  First to you for being published in the New York Times this Sunday, second, to nerdfighter Fall Of Autumn Distro, who had a video on the front page of YouTube this weekend, and third, to nerdfighter Sara Zarr, whose first novel  " Story of a Girl "  is a finalist for the National Book Award .  Hoo Hah !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Monday, October 22, and today we're gonna have an extra special nerdy edition of Brotherhood 2 . 0 .  Which is saying something because you know usually we're fairly nerdy, but today I'm going all out .  Hank, as I said, it's October 22 which is according some people is the 6012th birthday of the universe .  Hank, in the 17th century, Archbishop James Usher calculated that according to the Bible, the world was created in 4004 BC on October 22 just after nightfall .  That is some precise calculation, Hank .  Now as it happens, of course, in addition to be precise, it is also idiotic, but Hank, you can't really blame James Usher for having a bad idea .  I mean he lived in the 17th century, when a lot of people had a lot of bad ideas .  For example: Hey, what do you think we should do with all of these people who aren't from Europe ?  .  .  .  I don't know, enslave them ?   And also: Hey, why do you think everyone keeps dying from smallpox ?  .  .  .  I don't know .  I've been wondering about that too .  Do you mind if I cough directly into your mouth ?  .  .  .  No, be my guest .  Go right ahead .  Hank, the amazing thing about Usher's chronology is that unlike theories about smallpox and colonization, Usher's chronology has survived pretty well .  There are still a lot of people that believe that the earth is about 6000 years old and all those so-called 'young earth creationists' are inspired by Usher's original chronology .  Which frankly strikes me as ludicrous .  Anyway, Hank, besides being a gigantic nerd and spending the entire weekend reading about James Usher and his chronology, I've been working a lot .  My wonderful editor at Dutton, Julie Strauss Gabel, sent me back the edits for Paper Towns .  Look, Hank, Julie is so organized that she color coded all of the Post-Its in the manuscript .  Oh, and speaking of Paper Towns, Hank, have I ever mentioned to you that the phrase 'paper towns' anagrams to 'pants power' ?  I might have mentioned that before .  Sometimes I can't remember what I have and haven't mentioned on Brotherhood 2 . 0 because, you know, we've been making these videos every weekday for ten months .   But anyway, 'paper towns' anagrams to 'pants power' which I think is totally awesome .  'Paper towns' also anagrams to 'prawn pesto' which sounds delicious .  Anyway, Hank, in other news that I wanted to share with you and the Nerdfighters, I'm also working on another book with my friends Maureen  " 13 Little Blue Envelopes "  Johnson and Lauren  " TTYL "  Myracle .  That book is called  " Let It Snow "  which anagrams to 'stolen wit' .  Did someone steal my wit ?  It also anagrams to the motto of the National Association of Poor Spelling Weavers, 'We Nit Lots' .  Oh anagram jokes, Hank, they are truly the champagne of nerd humor .  Oh, and speaking of champagne and the 17th century, Hank, did you know that it was in or around the year 1670 that a monk named Dom Perignon invented champagne ?  Hank, it is said that when Dom Perignon has his first sip of champagne he called out to another monk,  " Come quickly .  I am tasting the stars .  "  I'll drink to that .  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .  .  .  Pants Power !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Thursday .  Remember this guy ?  It's all starting to come full circle .   Alright, Hank, I tried shooting outside, I just couldn't get into it .  I mean it's a beautiful day outside, but no matter how beautiful it is outside, it's always just a little bit more beautiful inside .   Hank I want to thank you for reminding me in your awesome video yesterday that nerdfighting isn't about tearing people asunder .  It's about bringing people together .  Although I do have one question about yesterday's video, Hank .  Have you seen your still shot ?  Wow .  Hank if that still frame were in a museum, and it should be, I wonder what the title of the photograph would be .  Boy with smurf fetish impersonates chipmunk ?  The blur-lipped possum wants it's dinner ?  Buck-tooth McGee has seen the face of the lord ?  Frankly, the possibilities are endless .   By the way Hank, speaking of nerdfighting, a few commenters have been asking whether or not nerdfighters fight for or against nerds .  You know they'll be like, stain fighters don't fight for stains .   And of course I don't want people to think that we're fighting against nerds .  Although, I mean to look at either of us it would be very difficult to conclude that we're fighting against nerds, unless we're masochists .  I mean   we were born with nerdy faces, nerdy faces, nerdy faces .  We were born with nerdy faces, because our parents are nerds .  Right I forgot about how I'm supposed to leave the singing to you .    But anyway, Hank this has been causing me a lot of anxiety for the last few weeks because every time I wear my nerdfighter shirt out on the town I'm like  " maybe people think that I'm fighting against nerds .  "   But then I was like wait a second, do freedom fighters fight against freedom ?   And for that matter, do power rangers range against power ?  NO !  Of course not, they range for power .  Wait, do they range for power ?  What does power ranger mean ?  Does it mean that they're rangers of power or rangers with power or rangers in favor of power ?  Ahh God, I'm getting confused again .   Nerdfighters are for nerds, Hank, that's all we need to know .   Oh, Hank, incidentally, a nerdfighter recently pointed out to me that there's a challenge that I gave myself that I tried to complete and failed to complete .  I am referring, of course, to the eat five sheets of toilet paper while discussing the political situation in Nepal challenge .  Hank, I gave myself that challenge on January 2nd and as you probably recall, I succeeded in talking about the political situation in Nepal, but I failed at eating the five sheets of toilet paper while doing it .   So, Hank, hear me now and believe me .  In two days, on Friday I am going to eat five whole sheets of toilet paper while discussing the political situation in Nepal .  Because that's what Brotherhood 2 . 0's really about, Hank, while you and I discuss the things that really matter to us, like, you know, the political situation in Nepal .   And there's no better way to welcome people in then to eat five sheets of toilet paper while you're doing it .  Or maybe that's just me .  I love to watch people eat toilet paper .   Anyway, Hank, three things that I want to quickly discuss .  First, kiva . org .  Hank, as you know, for months the nerdfighters have been supporting kiva . org, a website that allows you and me and regular people to be micro-financiers .   And a funny thing happened to kiva . org recently .  .  . they ran out of poor people .  That's right, Hank, for a while kiva . org became so popular because, you know, it's all the fun of charity without having to spend any money, that there were actually more people looking to donate money then there were entrepreneurs in the developing world looking to accept that money .   And for a minute, Hank, I was like,  " Wow, nerdfighters cured poverty .  "   But it turns out there were more poor people, they just hadn't gotten them up on the website yet .   But they're up there now, so now we can all go back and start making loans at kiva . org .   Also, Hank, I saw in PC magazine that ecogeek . org, your website, was named one of the 100 best websites on the entire internet .   And Hank, I know how many website there are on the internet, there are like eight or nine hundred .   Third, Hank, secret siblings Adam and Ava made a great movie that we should all watch and then vote for .   And breast cancer surviving nerdfighter, Kim Klein is up for a big scholarship .  You can find more information about both of those things here or possibly here and there's always the slight possibility that it's over there .   Hank, you're a great brother .  I'll see you tomorrow  Every time I say something sentimental I'm all like bllaghghgghgh .   But you are a great brother .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Friday, October 26th .  Today I'm going to discuss the political situation in Nepal while eating five sheets of toilet paper .   Our story begins in 2001 .  Nepal is a constitutional monarchy .  It's in the middle of a lot of political crises, the biggest one of which is that there are all of these Maoist rebels who are trying to take over the country .   Now, I know what you're thinking: Maoist rebels ?  Maoist rebels are the contemporary insurgency, what like Friendster is to contemporary social networks .  Nobody has Maoist rebels anymore .  I mean, someone needs to phone Nepal, tell them that it's 2007, that they need to get some, like, Islamic insurgencies, or some small random ethnic group that wants independence .   The country's in the middle of this civil war with all these Maoist rebels, and uh, the crown prince wants to marry a girl .  Now, it happens the girl the crown prince wants to marry is in the wrong clan, and so his parents are opposed to this .   And so the crown prince reacts the way, you know with the sort of, like uh, calm, thoughtful, reaction that you would expect from a crown prince, which is that he gets a machine gun and proceeds to kill pretty much his entire family .  He kills his mom, he kills his dad, he kills a brother, he kills a sister, he kills like two of his aunts and two of his uncles, I think he killed some cousins .   And then he shoots himself in the head, which is a little bit suspicious .   But anyway, when you're in a constitutional monarchy, Hank, you need a king or a queen, and the guy just killed like pretty much the entire family, right ?  So they've got a problem .   Hold on, I've got to swallow .    And then like one of his uncles who didn't get shot somehow, uh, became king .  Now, there's a longstanding theory that the uncle might have in fact done the shooting, uh, to become king .  Although, as it worked out, being king of Nepal--not that great of a gig .   Eventually twelve thousand people are killed in this civil war, and then finally in 2005, the king announces,  " I am going to be God !  There will be no more constitutional monarchy !  "  He dissolves the Parliament .   But of course that's like really hard to do, it doesn't go that well, and there are pro-democracy protests in 2006 .  So eventually the king brings back the Parliament .   In late 2006, the Maoist rebels, uh, and the Parliament kind of have a talk and they agree, no more fighting .  Eventually, the Maoist rebels come into the government and take some seats in Parliament .  There's relative peace, even earlier this year they said that there were going to be elections in June, everyone's like,  " Yes !  Elections in June !  "  They were totally psyched, the king had become just a figurehead king .   *cough*  Hold on .   I just swallowed a lot of toilet paper all at once .   So then at the last possible second, they decide, no .  No, no elections in June of 2007 .  We're going to have the elections in November of 2007 .   And then about a week ago, Hank, you know what they announced ?  They announced that they didn't want to have elections after all .    And the Maoist rebels, having left the government now, are now threatening to start a civil war again .  So things are very perilous right now, and what we need is serious international intervention .  A few days ago, the security counsel announced that they were really, strongly opposed to Nepal not having elections .   I just swallowed my fifth piece of toilet paper !  Yes !  I am the toilet-paper-eating king of the world !   Hank, as a quick P . S . , the first thing that comes up when you Google 'how to eat toilet paper' is a woman asking the following question:  " I just caught my husband eating toilet paper ?  I asked him why he was eating it and when I asked him about it again, he said, 'Moisture reduces volume . ' "   It's true that moisture does reduce volume .  Anyway, Hank, if that woman happens to be a nerdfighter, it just so happens that I know what's wrong with her husband .  He has pica  , or pica, I don't know you pronounce it .  Pica or pica is a disease in which you eat things that aren't food .  It's a little bit weird, but it's nothing to be ashamed of .  I mean this stuff is kind of delicious .  I'll see you Monday .                 
Good Morning Hank, it's Tuesday, October 30th .  You know Hank, sometimes people will accuse me of not being a real nerd because, you know, I don't read that much science fiction, I like sports a lot .  .  . So I want to thank you for sharing the book I wrote when I was 8,  " It Just Isn't Fair " , because it proves once and for all that I am definitely a nerd .   Hank can we just look at the cover art of that book quickly ?  Ok, here we go .  On the left there, you see me .  For some reason I'm kind of a quasi-abstract painting .   And then over there on the right, saying,  " Wimpy wimpy " , you see a popular person .  Hank, here's what gets me about  " wimpy wimpy "  guy:  " Wimpy wimpy "  guy is obviously my 8 year old understanding of what a popular person is .   And that means that when I was 8, I thought that cool was wearing mismatched plaid pants hiked up to your solar plexus .  Hank, I was such a nerd that I thought the nerds were cool .  Hank, the reason you couldn't find my box full of childhood treasures is that a few years ago, mom and dad sent it to my house .  Where it is kept safely under lock and key from the prying eyes of you and your minions .  That said, I would like to show you some highlights from my childhood box .   First we have this family portrait from 1981 which is a totally normal family portrait in every single way .  Except that I clearly need to pee .  I also have a report about Thomas Edison I wrote in 3rd grade .  Thomas Edison you know is famous for inventing the boom box .  I don't wanna brag, Hank, but I did get an A+ on the report even though I used the word  " interesting "  11 times .  That's the great thing about 3rd grade, Hank .  If you've got one polysyllabic adjective, everyone thinks you're a genius .   Hank, it's not that I think mom and dad made me massively unpopular in elementary school, but sometimes I'll come across something from my childhood and I'll be like,  " Mom and dad, what were you thinking ?  "  Like for instance, say I wanted a sticker album .  I think that's great, get me a sticker album for my birthday .  By all means; sticker albums are awesome .  Don't make it pink .  Although to be fair, while mom and dad picked out the album itself, I picked out all the rainbow stickers .  God I love rainbows .  Hank, my favorite thing about the pink stickers album is that it's got like a page for googly eyed stickers, and a page for my favorite stickers, and a page for scratch and sniff stickers .   And then it's got a page for military insignia stickers .  Weird !   Also in my childhood box, we have this beanie .  Now Hank, I wish I could tell you that mom and dad bought me this beanie when I was in 3rd grade, but the plain fact of the matter is that I bought it using my own money when I was a sophomore in high school .   Hank, the final thing I'd like to show you, unfortunately I don't have .  I don't know where it is .  It may be in North Carolina, actually .  I'm referring, of course, to the only trophy I ever won .  Hank, it was 1984 and I was still in tee ball, even though everyone else in my class had moved onto the minor leagues of little league .   Hank, I think you might've been spared little league baseball, so let me give you some quick terminology .   " Tee ball "  is when, instead of hitting a pitch that's thrown at you, you hit a ball that's just sitting on a tee .  So because I was like 4 years older than all the other tee ball players, I was relatively good .  I mean I was terrible, but I was just better than most of the 5 year olds .   And so at the end of the season they announced the all-star team, and I didn't make the all-star team .  I was beat out by a nice kid named Bryce who was, I think, 4 .   But out of pity they named me an alternate for the all-star team .   And the all-star game itself was occurring over Thanksgiving weekend, and I didn't wanna go see grandpa in Indiana, because I was worried that Bryce might get injured and my services might be needed in the all-star game .  Also I was kind of bummed out because only the actual all-stars got trophies; the alternates only got like certificates or something .  So partly to convince me to leave town for Thanksgiving, and partly because they're nice people and they love me, mom and dad had a trophy made for me .   And the trophy says,  " John Green .  1984 .  All Star .  .  . In Our Hearts .  "    I'm an all star in their hearts, Hank !   And that's the only trophy I ever won as a child .   So those are my nerd credentials, Hank .    I think I've proven my point .  I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Thursday, November 1st .  Hank, I want to begin by congratulating you on your rap song yesterday .  Um, I laughed a lot .  I wasn't always laughing with you, but I laughed a lot .  So, in today's video I want to talk a little bit about Nerdfighters .  Hank, you know what I really like ?  What I like more than anything else in the entire world ?  Nerdfighters .  I have never met a Nerdfighter I didn't like .  I like going to My Pants and seeing what they're talking about .  I like reading their comments .  I like watching their videos .  I like it when they send me pictures .  So, from all over the world, this, like, nation has been built out of nerds .  I mean, it's a small nation; it's like, Liechtenstein .   But, Hank, there are two kinds of nerdfighters that I like better than all of the other nerdfighters in the world .  First: little ones .  Like, last night, Hank, there was this six year-old nerdfighter who was trick or treating and he came up to my door and he said  " Trick or treat ?  !  "  and I said, " What are you dressed as ?  " , and he said,  " L'etat, c'est moi, "  and I was like  " Are you Louis the XIV ?  " , and he said,  " Oui !  Trick or treat ?  "  Little nerdfighters, so cute !   And Hank, my other kid of favorite nerdfighter is when a nerdfighter finds another nerdfighter and they fall in nerdfighter-like .   And, Hank, I happen to have inside information that that precise thing has recently happened .  One of our secret siblings, I'm not gonna reveal his or her name because she asked me -- DARN IT -- not to, has just started seeing another nerdfighter, a somewhat prominent nerdfighter -- I'm not naming any names .  All I'm gonna say, Hank, is that both of these people are so awesome that if and when their awesome collides, it could result in a kind of nuclear chain reaction of awesome that could potentially lead to world peace .   But Hank, there's a problem !  Take a guess at what the problem is, Hank .  It's geography .  The difference between Nerdfighteria and, say Liechtenstein   is that Liechtenstein is located in one place whereas Nerdfighteria is located in like thirty thousand different places .  Which is fine, because there are still great places in Nerdfighteria to hang out, like My Pants .  Hank, the only problem is that occasionally you need to do something other than hang out, like you need to, like, touch, and hug, and that's all .  Let's make it perfectly clear for all the young nerdfighters out there: mommy and daddy nerdfighters don't do anything but touch and hug .  Hank, our secret sibling and her nerdfighter boy are separated by geography .  Fortunately, Hank, it's a geography that can be traversed by train .   But Hank, they're not business people, they're nerdfighters, so they don't have any money .  Without the money, they can't get on the train .  Without the train, they can't bring together their awesome .   And so I heard about this, and I was so upset, Hank, because, like, it's like my second favorite kind of nerdfighter, right behind nerdfighter babies !   But Hank, then I remembered .  We created a foundation to deal with this very kind of problem !  So Hank, we're gonna do it .  There will be complexities .  There will be complications .  It's gonna take a little bit, but we're gonna do it !  It's going to cost somewhere around a hundred bucks, Hank .  If any nerdfighters want to contribute to the project, they're welcome to do so at brotherhood2 . com .  Hank, here is the semi-abstract pumpkin painting that Sarah and I made of you last night .  By the way, when I say  " Sarah and I " , I mean almost entirely Sarah .  I'll see you on Monday .  No, wait, tomorrow !  P .  S .  In Indianapolis, Indiana, there's a Subway restaurant just south of 86th Street on Ditch Road .  Around the corner from that Subway, you will find two metal boxes .  Something is taped to the top of one of them .  If you find that something, you should report its nature and contents immediately at brotherhood2 . com/mypants .  Thus begins the worldwide nerdfighter scavenger hunt .  See you in My Pants .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Monday, November 5th .  Today's video comes in ten parts .   Ten parts ?  Are you crazy ?   I know, it's madness !   But the good news is that each part is going to be extremely short, like what we just did ?   What, you mean like this back and forth ?   Exactly .  That was part one .   Wow .  You didn't even introduce the part .  You just BAM, went right into it .   I know .  We could keep talking about what a great trick it was, but I gotta move on to part two .   Part two .  Hank, thanks to you and Dad for that video you dug up of me at the Orange County Public School Author Awards .  It was quite interesting for me to see the way I responded to the first compliment my writing ever received from a peer .   And while I'm tempted to agree with you that that moment represented the first time I realized that my writing could connect me to other people and to the world, I think it's far more likely that that was the first moment I ever realized that a girl might, for even one second, like me .   Part three, Pakistan .  Listen up General Musharraf, 'cause I know you watch this show, you're pissing me off .  Stop it .   Part four, Paper Towns .  Hank, the ball that is Paper Towns is back in the court that is my house, which means that, for the next week or so, I'm going to be editing, like, 14 hours a day and it's going to be very stressful .  So, anyway Hank, I feel like I should tell you that this week's video blogs are going to be kind of like Alberto Contador in the Tour de France, which is to say that I'm gonna go really fast and I might have to use steroids to do it .   Part five, earworms .  Hank, you know sometimes a tune or a lyric from a song will get stuck in your head, like, you know, like,  " I need Harry Potter like a Grindylow needs water and as Saturday approaches, my need grows .  "  Like that ?  Well, lately I've been having poetry earworms .  Like this from Walt Whitman:  " Has anyone supposed it is lucky to be born ?  Well, I hasten to tell him or her that it is just as lucky to die and I know it .  "   Part six, Nerdfighterlike .  Hank, I have great news .  We've raised enough money through the generosity of many, many Nerdfighters, that now we can bring our secret sibling and her secret Nerdfighter boy together so that their awesome can collide and cause an awesome mushroom cloud that will spread awesome fallout all throughout the world .  Hank, even through they've basically been outed in My Pants, I'm still not going to say their names until they tell me it's okay, but I have to tell you they are so cute .  Hank, they're so cute that they could beat any of the puppies or kittens on Cute with Chris .   Part seven, Pakistan again .  I mean, seriously George Bush, have you ever liked a leader of a country who turned out not to be a total jackass ?  Like, remember when you first met with Vladimir Putin and you said that you could see into his soul and you saw that it was a good soul ?  Excellent call, George Bush .   And then do you remember all of the wonderful things that you said about Musharraf ?  It's almost like you have really questionable judgment .   Part eight, one more thing about Pakistan .  Hank, I don't know if you can tell, but I'm really mad about what's happening in Pakistan right now .  Do you remember in 2003 and 2004 and 2005 when President Bush would say over and over and over again,  " Democracy is on the march "  ?  Um, where is it marching to ?  Because it's not marching to Pakistan .   And it's not marching to Russia .  It's not marching to Nepal .  It's not marching to China .  It's not marching to Saudi Arabia .  It's not marching to Libya or Kuwait or Oman or Kathur .  It's not marching to Venezuela .  In fact, if you do a count, you might find out that there are fewer genuinely democratic countries today than there were when democracy started marching .  Hank, maybe democracy is marching to Mars .  Which, I'm sure, is great for the Martians, but it's a disaster for us .  Hank, we have got to get democracy off the march immediately !   Part nine, the outro .  Hank, it looks like the people of Pakistan are going to be less free tomorrow than they are today, just as they are less free today than they were yesterday .  I don't look forward to seeing that tomorrow, but I do look forward to seeing you .   Part ten, the scavenger hunt .  Hank, Nerdfighters have found clues all over the United States .  They found a dollar bill in Indianapolis, a dollar bill in Englewood, Florida, and a note just outside of Chicago .  They've de-anagrammed all the anagrams in the notes and they've found a video that we've hid for them .  Now we're gonna calm down for a day and just chat .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Thursday, November 5th .  In your video yesterday, you asked if I would discuss the political situation in Pakistan while eating something that isn't food .  I am, of course, happy to accommodate that request . While I discuss the political situation in Pakistan, I'm going to attempt to eat 24 Peeps pumpkins .  Now, I know what you're saying .  You're saying,  " Wait a second .  Peeps pumpkins are food .  "  Oh, really ?  If they're food, how come they don't contain any nutrition ? Hank, for the purposes of our story today, we're going to begin in 1988 .  Pakistan is holding it's first free election in a decade .   And the winner of the election is a woman, named Benazir Bhutto .  The Prime Minister-ship of Pakistan went back and forth between Bhutto and this guy named Sharif .  Now, Sharif happens to be president in 1999 .   And because the government's kind of corrupt and a lot of people aren't happy, there's wide-spread rumors that there might be a military takeover in Pakistan, which has happened plenty of times before . The head of the army is this guy, Pervez Musharraf .  Musharraf leaves the country to go on vacation, right ?   And while he's out of the country, Sharif announces that Musharraf is no longer the head of the army .   And Musharraf gets on a plane, like a regular commercial plane .  When he gets to Karachi, Sharif, the Prime Minister, says to the airport, You cannot let that plane land .   And the airport's like, ok .  You're the prime minster . So, Musharraf's plane just keeps circling right ?   And Musharraf literally like uses the air phone in the plane .  Or maybe he illegally used his cell phone I don't know .   But, he calls the army and he was like,  " Hey guys can you take over the airport in Karachi for me ?  "   And they're like,  " YEAH !  "  .  So they invade the Karachi airport, take it over, Musharraf's plane lands, with like 5 minutes to spare, and Perez Musharraf becomes the Prime Minster of Pakistan . Now it's 1999 and Pakistan has just made its self a nuclear power, which made America mad, and then this unelected, dictator, general guy becomes Prime Minister . Which is just so like 1970's South America, you know ?  We're not getting along well with Pakistan at all and then on September 12th 2001, all of a sudden, Perez Musharraf, good friend of ours . Now some people would say that Musharraf has been been generally pretty co-operative with the United States as far as terrorism goes and that is true to an extent but I would argue that the radicalization of Pakistan would never have even happened if it hadn't have been for Musharraf .  Example; the last time there were free elections in Pakistan in the late 1990's, radicalism Islamic political parties won about 6% of the vote as I recall .  Now analysts say they could reach up to 40% of a free vote . Now, during this time the only thing that is keeping Pakistan from being an all out dictatorship is that Pakistan still has a kind of Quasi independent judiciary .  So in early 2007 the Supreme Court made Musharraf mad and he asked the leader of the Supreme Court to resign and the leader of the Supreme court said,  " No thank you .  " This kind of symbolized his general weakening plus there had been a lot of talk about elections and so Bhutto and Sharif see this as their opportunity to come back out of exile, back to Pakistan and restore democracy .  .  . or at the very least become the new dictator . So Sharif flies in from Saudi Arabia last month and he is met at the airport by the army who tell him nicely that he should consider going back Saudi Arabia or consider dying in jail .  Sharif, needless to say, don't like it .  I've been waiting like 20 minutes to tell that joke . Then Bhutto comes back from Dubai to Pakistan and she is actually allowed entrance into the country, although she is almost assassinated on the way to her house .  Then Musharraf decides he is going to put most of the Supreme Court under house arrest along with a lot of the other top judges .  He also decides to suspend the constitution and severely curtail freedom of press . AHH YES !  I ate the peeps ! The first people to protest the suspension of the constitution and the removal of these judges .  .  . all of Pakistan's lawyers .  Hank how screwed up is that world when lawyers hold the moral high ground ?  !  So Hank that's the news from Pakistan .  I never thought I would say this in my life but go lawyers .  I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Friday, an odd day in November .  Hank, I've just finished re-reading the Brotherhood 2 . 0 rules .  The rules state that I have to make a video every other weekday for 365 days, all of 2007 .   But nowhere do the rules state that I have to make a long video .  Particularly, if, for instance, I am experiencing radical asymmetry of the ear due to a massive ear infection .  It's like, me .  .  .  and Ross Perot .  All I want is my ear symmetry back !  Oh, and it would be awesome if I could hear out of both ears .  Hank, I've been told that I should be feeling better soon .  Which is good .  Because until I feel better, you should not expect the videos to be either long or funny .  Hank, I hope that your weekend is painless, or at the very least, that there is a lot of Percocet involved .  Don't worry about me; my doctors have been generous .  I'll see you on Monday .  P .  S .  Thanks to Nerdfighter Jen for making the Peep that looks like me !  Oh, and P .  P .  S Just because I'm only rocking one ear doesn't mean I don't have time for the scavenger hunt .   But your clue isn't ready just yet .  Something will show up somewhere at some point this weekend, though, Nerdfighters .  Don't forget to be awesome .                 
Good Morning, Hank, it's a Tuesday in November .  Hank, I still have a bit of an ear infection, but as several helpful viewers pointed out to me last week: I never really had any facial symmetry .  So that's good .  Hank, I want to talk to you a little bit today about the writer's strike that's going on, partly because it's affecting my television habits and partly because I'm worried about its larger implications for creative work in the United States .  So Hank, when you write books for a living, it's a pretty simple economic model: This is my book .  Every time I sell one of these, they pay me for it .  I have a publisher .  The publisher sells and distributes copies of my book .   And for each book that is sold, the publisher makes a certain amount of money and I make a certain amount of money .  The amount of money I make is smaller .   And it doesn't matter the format the book is in, it doesn't matter if it's a paperback, it doesn't matter if it's on CD, it doesn't matter if it's on tape or if it's on MP3 or if it only exists on the internet .   But anyway, the percentage of the sale I get on various forms of my book might change, but I always get some kind of percentage .  So that percentage is called a royalty .  In screenwriting and writing for television, there's an analogous percentage, which is called a residual .  It's called different things because the studio actually technically owns the copyright on screenwriting, but it's very complicated copyright law crap .  Now, Hank, I have to say to be fair there is one version of my book for which I am not paid a penny .  It's called an advanced reader's copy and they give this out to librarians and independent booksellers, and also to reviewers in order to get people excited about the book in the months before it comes out .  See it says right there:  " Advanced reader's copy .  Not for sale .  "  Hank, there is a reason I don't get paid anything for this book: It's because they're given away .   And things that are given away are basically promotional tools, right ?   But here's the crazy thing, Hank: When people write for television shows, and then those television shows are put on the internet and then people watch those television shows on the internet, while also looking and clicking on ads that are on the same internet page, the producers say that the writers shouldn't get paid for that content, because it's promotional content .  So let me give you an example, Hank .  Say you think Family Guy is funny .  I happen not to, but say you do .  You can go onto MySpace and you can watch an episode of Family Guy, an entire episode, with commercials, and Fox will make money of that content, because they own MySpace which is showing ads and they also own Family Guy, which is also showing ads .   And yet Fox says that they shouldn't have to pay the writers to show the stuff on MySpace, because it's promotional content .   But Hank, you can't make money on promotional content .   And if you do make money on it, it's not promotional anymore, it's just content .  Hank, just as I'm paid for MP3s and for audio books and for paperbacks and for hardcovers, writers want to be paid for their work on television and in movies, regardless of the format .  Whether it's shown on television or on a movie screen or on MySpace or on YouTube .  That's all they want, Hank, is to be treated like authors, who, for the record, are treated all right, but, you know, not that well .   But Hank, the other argument of the producers is that they can't set a residual rate because they don't know how much money they're going to make off internet content .  Do you think Brilliance Audio knows how many copies of the MP3 they're going to sell of my book An abundance of Katherines ?  Of course they don't .  Hank, they could sell four copies, in fact I think they have .  The point is, whether you sell four or four million, you pay a percentage of the revenue to the creator of the content .  That way we all have a shared responsibility in both the failure and the success of whatever we create .  So seriously guys, I would appreciate it if you would go back to the negotiating table and make a deal, so I can announce some very exciting news to the nerdfighters .  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .  Hank, two quick P .  S . 's: First, the nerdfighters in nerdfighterlike have outed themselves in an adorable video that you can see here or possibly here and there's always the chance that it's over here .  Also, Hank, thanks for your great video yesterday about the scavenger hunt .  It was extremely funny and a lot of nerdfighters were also extremely confused .  Hank, I will say this: The scavenger hunt as a whole is very complex .   But each day's clue can be solved with almost no knowledge of anything having to do with the scavenger hunt before today .  By the way, Hank, today's clue is going to be a doozy .  Nerdfighters, your clue is: Winner, South Dakota .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Thursday November 15th .  Hank, today's video comes in four parts .    Part one: Pop quiz .  Question for ya, Hank .  What's the surest evidence that the U . S .  economy is on a kind of permanent down- slope ?   Answer: In his newest music video, the rapper Jay-Z, is seen walking through the streets of New York holding a wad of 500 Euro bills .   Hank, even Jay-Z is worried about the weakness of the American dollar .  Now that wouldn't really bother me if we were talking about Lil' John or T-Pain or somebody .   But we're talking about Jay-Z, one of the great entrepreneurial minds of our generation .  I mean Hank, this is the same guy who once noted,  " I'm not a business man .  I'm a business, man .  "  Also he has the hottest girl in the game wearing his chain .   Anyway, Hank, this news only makes me more want to move to Europe .  Or possibly Australia .   Speaking of Australia: in Australia, they have something called the Inky awards, which are given out for young adult literature .   And you'll never guess who won the first international Inky award, also known as the Silver Inky .  It was me !   So thanks to all my readers in Australia and also all the Nerdfighters who voted for Looking For Alaska in the Inky awards .   By the way, Hank, do you know what they give you for winning an Inky award ?  A trophy .   And you know about my tortured history with trophies .  By the way, the trophy you see in the background is one I got in college for heading my group comedy sketch up .   Hank, I don't know exactly what the trophy's going to look like, but we can only hope that it's going to say 'John Green, winner of the 2007 Silver Inky, in our hearts . '  By the way, Hank, you know who lives in Australia ?  Our secret niece and nephew, Natalie and Calvin, which brings me to the next thing .   This is a segment I like to call 'What's Going On In Nerdfighteria . ' Hank, check out the crown that Natalie made me for being the toilet paper eating king of the world .   Also in news from Nerdfighteria - and I can hardly say this without laughing because it is so incredibly amazing - there's a Nerdfighter who's about to have a baby, and she is considering naming that baby Hank .  How awesome would that be ?  !  The Nerdfighter in question has posted a list of potential baby names on the internet and asks people to go vote .  I would encourage all Nerdfighters everywhere to check out the link in the video info and go vote immediately for Hank .   Thing four: Venn diagrams .  God, I love Venn diagrams .   Okay, Hank .  First we have Nerdfighters, then people who like to watch 'The Hills' on MTV, and then the intersection is of course, people who feel ashamed for watching 'The Hills' on MTV .   By the way, Nerdfighters, this doesn't count as textual communication, as has been established by previous Venn diagram jokes .   Venn diagram number two: over here we have people who like Cameo .  Over here Nerdfighters .  Lots of intersection .   And then down here in the corner, we have people who like Cameo but sometimes gets freaked out when she stares directly at the camera during Brotherhood 2 . 0 videos because sometimes I think she could kill me without feeling any remorse .    And then finally we have: the gooey feeling you're feeling when something's about to begin, the gooey feeling you feel when something's about to end .  Inside of there is anxiety, inside of there is sadness, and in the middle is where awesome lives .   Hank, I look forward to seeing more of the LA auto show tomorrow .  I'll see you then .   Scavenger hunters, you've already seen the clue that's in this video .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Monday .  I'm raking today .  So Hank, several years ago, my writer friend David Levithan and I started writing a book together .   And today, hopefully, I'm going to find out if it's going to be published .   And by whom .   And for how much .   And the answers to other interesting questions .  So what I'm gonna try to do is just to share the experience of today with you .  Uh, mostly it's gonna be me on this phone .  on the phone) Hey !  How are you ?  I'm nervous, man .  It's a long day .  It's been a long day today .  I threw up in my mouth a little earlier .  Hank, the thing about this book - and by the way I'm on my way to the doctor's office, and my vlogging while driving is not an endorsement of vlogging while driving - usually you know, like, about what's going to happen .   But in this particular situation, I really, genuinely, have no idea of what's going to happen .  Like, at any moment, my agent could call me and she could be like,  " Sorry John, all your dreams are dead .  "  Basically Hank, as a rule, I like situations where the number of possibilities is finite enough that I can think about all of them and puzzle through how I'm going to feel about all of them in advance .   And in this situation, there are just too many possible outcomes for me to have any idea how I'm going to be feeling later this afternoon .  Not to mention the fact that God only knows what the doctor's going to say .  Hank, I'm finished at the doctor's office .  Still no call .  I don't want to get into the details of what happened to me at the doctor's office, but suffice it to say that I was wearing a gown and I don't like to be touched there .  On the upside, I'm ok .    Why won't you ring ?  ?  Ring !    Hello ?  Hi how are you ?  Hahaha oh my God, seriously ?  !  Wow .  This is so much better than the part of my day, uh, when the doctor, um, was giving me a prostate exam .  This is so much better than that was .  David Levithan .  .  .  I am speaking both to you and to the viewers of Brotherhood 2 . 0 and my brother Hank .    David says hi !    Oh my gosh, can you believe it ?  Are you really happy ?  Another day I'll start to worry about, um, how they're gonna sell this book, but today all I have to worry about is where I'm gonna get my champagne .    Yes !  Hank, hope everything's going well for you, I'll see you tomorrow .  PS .  Sorry nerdfighters, but there's no scavenger hunt clue today .  The scavenger hunt will return soon, but in the mean time I wanted to thank everyone who helped free Hank from his kidnappers .                 
Good morning Hank, it's the day before Thanksgiving .  It's also the 102nd anniversary of the publication of Albert Einstein's famous paper - Does the Inertia of a Body Depend Upon its Energy Content ?  Of course the answer to that question was - heck yes it does !  Hank someday I'd like to write a analogous paper with a similar conclusion called 'Does the Awesomeness of a Body Depend Upon its Nerd Content ? ' I would use this paper to prove through the magic of physics that the accumulation of knowledge increases the overall worldwide level of awesome .    In a related story, boy am I a nerd !  Hank, speaking of nerdiness, it occurs to me that over the course of this year-long project, I've talked a lot about what a nerd I am and what a nerdfighter I am and how awesome it is to be a nerd and everything, and yet that whole time I've had glasses, that aren't very nerdy .  I mean, I understand that glasses are inherently nerdy, but what I'm saying is that my glasses aren't particularly nerdy .  Problem, solved !  These are so nerdy .  *whispers* I like them !  So Hank as you hinted out in your video yesterday, our family has a long and storied tradition of always saying what we're grateful for when we gather around the Thanksgiving table .  Now obviously we're not all going to be together this year for Thanksgiving because you're in snowy Missoula and I'm in weirdly warm Indianapolis .  Nonetheless I'd like to share some of what I'm grateful for .  First, I'm thankful to you, for the amazing year that we've had getting to know each other as grownup siblings .  Now, I realize that there's something a little bit ironic about calling you, and myself, a grownup, when we spent a lot of the year putting stuff on our heads and singing about Harry Potter, but still .  I'm thankful that it's snowing in Missoula, Montana right now, because with all this warm weather in Indianapolis, I was beginning to believe that maybe it would never snow anywhere at anytime for the rest of human history .  Also this year I'm particularly thankful to Youtube for giving the world a free and easy way for Luddites like me to communicate visually .  I'm thankful that I get to write the books I wanna write, when I wanna write them, for the people I wanna write them for .  I'm thankful that I have two functioning eyes, three nerdfighter t-shirts, and one beautiful Yeti .  I'm thankful that you're such a good songwriter .   And finally Hank, I'm thankful for the nerdfighters .  I mean, their collective awesome really has changed our lives .  I'm so much more optimistic than I used to be Hank because I've seen so many of the good things that can happen when people come together .  I find myself thinking that Faulkner was right when he declined to accept the end of man, saying,  " It is easy enough to say that man is immortal because he will endure .  That when the last ding-dong of doom has clanged and faded from the last worthless rock hanging tideless in the last red and dying evening .  That even then there will still be one more sound - that of his puny, inexhaustible voice, still talking .  I refuse to accept this .  I believe that man will not merely endure .  He will prevail .  He is immortal not because he alone among creatures has an inexhaustible voice, but because he has a soul, a spirit capable of compassion and sacrifice and endurance .  "  Oh and also I'm thankful for Faulkner .  That guy knew his way around a sentence .  There's something pretty amazing about being able to believe that, Hank, and that's a gift that nerdfighters have given me .  So thanks .  Hank, nerdfighters, what are you grateful for ?    Nerdfighters, your internet-only scavenger hunt clue for the day is the last word of Looking for Alaska .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Wednesday .  As you will no doubt notice, I am wearing my nerd glasses again .    Hank, the nerd glasses got pretty bad reviews when I pulled 'em out the first time, including,  " He looks like he's trying to be emo, but he's too old .  "  To which I have this response: if I'm too old to be emo, how do you account for the very emo and very old Edgar Allan Poe ?  Checkmate !   But I might go back and forth between these glasses and my other glasses for the rest of the year .  Hank, in other news, as you can see over there, I've moved my writing setup into my office .  I did this because for the last several days I've been working like sixteen hours a day in a big ocean of paper in the living room .   And then finally the ocean of paper actually took over the living room, and so to escape the ocean of paper, I had to move into the office .   But I have good news, Hank, I finished the most recent revision of Paper Towns .  Hank, usually in this kind of situation I would do my happy dance, but I'm just so tired .  I feel kind of like my brain has turned into liquid and like at any moment my brain might start to drip out of my nose .  Or would it drip out of my ears ?  Hank, that sounds like a good challenge for the nerdfighters !  Nerdfighters, if my brain were to liquefy, would it come out of my eyes or out of my nose or out of my ears or out of some combination of the three ?  Hank, usually I would think that's the kind of question that has no answer, but I have recently learned not to underestimate the nerdfighters .  By the way, nerdfighters, I will deliver you your handsome reward before the end of the year in some fashion or another .    Do you think that was brain ?  Do you there's a chance that that was brain that I just shot back up into my brain that for the rest of my life every five minutes or so I'm just going to have be like  , you know, just to keep my brain up there ?  Oh my God, Hank, something just occurred to me .  What if Amy Winehouse doesn't have a drug problem she just has a liquefied brain and so she has to snort every few minutes to get her brain back into her head ?  No wonder she has to cancel all her concerts for the rest of the year !  She has liquid brain !  I'd cancel my concerts too !  All right, Hank, I'm starting to worry that if I talk to you any longer, I'm going to give you and the nerdfighters liquid brain, so I'm going to sign off now .  Oh, and one more thing, Hank .  On Friday I want to talk about Christmas, but I was thinking maybe early next week I could answer some questions from nerdfighters .  The questions could be about anything .  I mean they could be about Pakistan or they could be about my glasses or whatever .  Anyway, nerdfighters, if you have any questions of any kind, please feel free to leave them   down there .  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .    Hey, scavenger hunters, you've already received today's clue .                 
Good morning Hank .  It's Friday, November 30th .  Hank, I'm not going to sit here and lie to you .  It's 12:30 in the afternoon and I'm still wearing my jammie pants .  Hank, I've always believed that a man who works from home is entitled to one day in his jammie pants per week . Hank today's video comes in two parts .  Part one is very short .  Part two is very long . Part one: the happy dance project .  Hank, I was supposed to finish the happy dance project by December 1st, but guess what, I'm not going to .  Sorry, life is hard and full of disappointment .  Instead of finishing it by December, I'm going to finish it in December .   But Hank, I can make this promise to the nerdfighters: There will be a happy dance project, and it will be change your life . Part two: Christmas .  Hank, in the last couple of weeks, you spent some time railing against the commercialization of Christmas, and as you know, I am also opposed to Christmas .  I mean I like the religious holiday, but I don't like anything about the secular side of it .  I don't like Santa Claus who was invented by the same guy who invented Uncle Sam .   And I can totally see the connection because basically Santa Claus is all like  " I need YOU to spend more money on consumer goods in December .  "  By the way, I don't like Uncle Sam either .  I find him pervy .  I don't like mixing the colors red and green .  I don't think they match .  Also, the Christmas lights Hank, I just don't get it .  Putting Christmas lights outside your house is like saying  " I don't think that electricity is a valuable resource .  "  I don't like reindeer .  They seem like regular deer, only more dangerous .  I don't like elves unless they are played by Liv Tyler .   And I really don't like toy soldiers .  Toy soldiers freak me out .  I mean Hank, if you think about it, if the toy soldiers and the elves got together there would be no stopping them .  The toy soldiers would have no problem hijacking Santa's sleigh .  The elves could put lead paint in all of our toys, and then we would have a group of well armed soldiers using a flying sleigh to attack us and we wouldn't be able to defend ourselves because all the lead poisoning made us stupid .  Oh my God, Hank, it's an apocalyptic scenario !  I don't like eggnog .  If I want eat eggs, I want to eat eggs, and if I want to drink, I want to drink, but I don't want to do both at the same time .  I think it's weird to take a dead tree and put it inside and cover it in lights that could catch fire .  I do like Christmas ornaments .  That is the one secularized thing about Christmas that I like .  Hank, I don't want to sound like some kind of religious fundamentalist who think there was a golden era in human history that we need to go back to, but my basic rule about Christmas is this: I like everything about Christmas that was thought up before the year 1800 .  That said, if everyone felt the way that I did, there would be a worldwide recession and our economy would collapse . So, Hank, those are my thoughts on Christmas .  I am buying some gifts this year, but it's for kids I don't know who need clothes .   And maybe that should be the policy: You only give gifts to people who need gifts . Anyway, Hank, forward slash rant .  I'll see you tomorrow . Nerdfighters, no clue this weekend .  Instead, head to My Pants and help us solve our identity crisis .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Monday, December 10th and I have very exciting news !  Whenever she watches the videos, Sarah always makes fun of me because when I get excited, I talk in a really high-pitched voice, so I'm gonna try to do that again .  Good morning Hank, it's Monday, December 10th and I have   very exciting news !  Nah, that doesn't work .  It just doesn't sound genuinely excited .  I mean, I understand why it's hard for my wife to accept, but the fact of the matter is that my genuine excited voice is the voice of fangirl .  I mean, if I'm like,    " I have very exciting news, "  everyone will be like,  " No, he doesn't .  He's full of it .  "   But if I'm like    " Oh my God, Hank, I have such exciting news !  "  then everyone's gonna be like,  " That guy is really excited .  I know, because he sounds like an eleven-year-old girl at a Jonas Brothers concert .  "  Anyway, Hank, you may recall that the last time I had very exciting news, the very exciting news was that I had just finished cataloging my home library .  Now, Hank, I certainly don't wanna take anything away from the Herculean task that is cataloging one's home library, but this news is even more exciting !  Hank, you may recall that last year, I published a book called  " An Abundance of Katherines .  "  It's gonna be a movie !  Hopefully, one day, eventually .  Hank, the  " Katherines "  movie deal has been in the works for a really, really long time, but over the weekend, everyone finally agreed to everything and now it's done and I can tell you about it and I'm very excited that  " Katherines "  is going to be a movie !  Hopefully, one day, eventually .  By the way, the reason I keep saying,  " Hopefully, one day, eventually "  is that these things take a long time, like, for instance, my first novel,  " Looking for Alaska " , has been in movie development for, like, a year and a half now and is still in development .  Another good example of how long it could take, is the excellent book  " Beowulf " , which was released, I believe, 1100 years ago and then the movie came out last month .   But  " An Abundance of Katherines: The Movie "  will have a much smaller budget than  " Beowulf: The Movie " , so hopefully we'll be able to get it going a little faster .  Hank, there are several reason why I'm really excited that East of Doheny optioned  " An Abundance of Katherines "  to turn it into a movie, reason one is that I've always thought that it could be kind of a funny, cool, interesting movie .  Reason two is that East of Doheny is an awesome production company that's interested in a lot of the same kinds of movies I'm interested in .   And reason three is that they want me to write the screenplay .   And that's very exciting because I've always wanted to write a screenplay and, plus, I think it would be great fun to hang out with Hassan and Lindsey and all the other characters from  "  And Abundance of Katherines "  and also, like a lot of authors, I'm very excited about the idea of having some creative control over the movie that gets made out of my book .  So, of course I would like to write the screenplay for  " An Abundance of Katherines " , but, unfortunately, I'm on strike .  That's right, Hank, I'm striking in my jammy pants !  Hey, hey !  Pencils down !  Hollywood's a union town !   And so, I guess, is Indianapolis !  I know I need to work on my chanting, Hank, but I've only been on strike for, like, one day .  Hank, I don't know if you heard, but the studio moguls, showing the kind of fortitude and generosity of spirit for which they're widely respected, walked away from the negotiating table last week .  Now, Hank, I know that the studio moguls are watching our show, because God knows they're not watching the crap they're putting television right now .  American Gladiators ?  Really ?  That's what you're gonna bring back ?   And I have a little message for the studio moguls: Get back to the table !  As Hassan would say,  " Daddy wants to make a movie .  "  So Hank, that's my very exciting news .  I'm sorry that my pitch got so high, but I'm very, very happy !  I'm so happy that I forgive you for saying in your last video that I lie about my height, when you and I both know that I'm really, genuinely, six feet, one inches tall .  Or, at least, I am now !  Hank, I want to say a quick thanks to everyone at East of Doheny for believing in my book and to all the agents and everybody who made this happen .  I'm sorry about the thing on my nose, but, trust me, it looked worse before I popped it .  I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Monday, December 12th, one of the last days that I can make meaningful revisions to Paper Towns .   And you know how much I like to make meaningful revisions . Honestly, Hank, I would probably still be revising my first book, My Great Mini Book It's Wonderful Amazing, if my second-grade teacher hadn't wrenched it from my hands and insisted we get it bound . Hank, today's video comes in three parts .  First, we're going to see what it's like when I punch my camera . Are you OK ?  I'm sorry .  I was just trying to do something that Hank did .  I thought it would be funny .  I didn't know that it was going to get out of control like that . Second ?  Hank, the folks at Merriam-Webster have announced  " the word "  for 2007, and the word is  " w00t .  " Now  " w00t "  is kinda like an e .  e .  cummings poem in that, in order to fully appreciate it, you have to see it .   But it's a great word, and I'm happy to see that leet speak has come so far that it's now getting  " word of the year " -type attention . Although, I do kind of miss the old style of elite speak, when we would, you know, develop complicated and extensive vocabularies in order to be able to talk about different subjects with great nuance .  But, Hank, as much as I do like  " w00t, "  I can't help but feel that it wasn't the perfect word of 2007, particularly since, as far as I'm concerned,  " w00t "  sort of hit its peak in 2006 . I feel like the Word of 2007 should have been a word that was invented in 2007 .   And, so, I wrote the editors of Merriam-Webster a letter .  I'd like to read it to you .  " Dear Messieurs Merriam and Webster, " Today is a sad day for the English language .  No, sad isn't the word I'm looking for .  Today is an  " un-w00t "  day .  " Listen all day to teenagers playing Halo 3 online, and you will hear nary a 'w00t . ' In fact, the young people of America are so bereft that they will find it difficult to summon any kind of leet speak whatsoever .  Today, no noobs will be pwned .  Haxors won't be able to bring themselves to steal warez, or even to download pr0n .  " Indeed, December 12th, 2007, will be forever remembered as the day the lols died .  Because the young people of America are devastated that you picked, as Word of the Year for 2007, a word that apexed in 2006 .  " Footnote:  " Apexed "  ?  I just made up that word .  I am such a neologist . Footnote to the footnote: I also made up  " neologist "  !  " This tragedy is compounded by the fact that there was a word available to you that would have made the young people of America w00t from coast to coast .  I am referring, of course, to 'Nerdfighter . ' 'Nerdfighter' pwns 'w00t . ' Everyone knows that .  And if you don't know what a Nerdfighter is, I don't know how you wake up every morning and call yourself a lexicographer .  " TTYS, " John Green .  " Hank, just in case you and the Nerdfighters would also like to write Merriam-Webster to express your disappointment that they didn't pick the word  " Nerdfighter, "  I've included their contact information in the video info . Part three: Do you think we should get a puppy ?   And if you do think we should get a puppy, what should we call it ?  I already suggested  " Bubbles the Nerdfighting Puppy, "  but Sarah vetoed it . Hank, I hope the Secret Project is moving along, and I'll see you tomorrow . Scavenger hunters, the reason there hasn't been a scavenger hunt clue in a couple days is because we are preparing for the big, huge, final scavenger hunt .   And that will start soon !                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday, December 18th, and this is what the  " Most Discussed "  page of YouTube looks like:   Nerdfighter nerdfighter nerdfighter nerdfighter nerdfighter nerdfighter nerdfighter nerdfighter nerdfighter nerdfighter Mike Huckabee .  Hank, it's Question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real nerdfighters--but before I do that, I need to answer some questions related to the secret project:  What do you think of the secret project ?    There was a moment yesterday in the middle of watching hundreds of videos, and talking about them with thousands of nerdfighters, where I thought that other than my wedding day, this was the happiest I'd been since I was, like, seven .  I mean, the last thing that made me this happy was probably Fraggle Rock .  It's just so amazing to see all these people come together to support each other and all these worthy organizations .  Thank you, thank you, thank you .   And watch the videos, find charities you like, and support them .    Is there going to be a punishment before the end of the year ?    YES !  Hank textually communicated with me in the comments of Nalts's video yesterday .   And so now we get to punish Hank !  Merry Christmas, me !  Nerdfighters, we don't have much time, so I need you to suggest punishments   in the comments .  Hank, it's going to hurt so bad .  You know how creative the nerdfighters are .  Now onto the rest of Question Tuesday .    If a nerdfighter falls in the forest and there's no one there to hear her fall, is she still made of awesome ?    That's an excellent question, and very possible, because everyone knows that one: nerdfighters are clumsy, and two: we do spend a lot of time alone .  The answer is that nerdfighters are made out of even more awesome when they act nerdfighterly when no one is watching .    What's your favorite type of muffin ?    Blueberry .    What's the meaning of life ?    Other people .    What unit is awesome measured in ?  Is it kilo-sweets or kilo-cools ?    I think there's too much awesome for it to be kilo-anything .  I think it has to be giga-cools .    Ralph and Wayne can each cut down five trees in two hours if they work together .  How fast does each person cut down trees if Ralph takes twenty minutes longer per tree than Wayne ?    Ralph takes an hour; Wayne takes forty minutes .   Hey, is this eighth-grade mathematics ?  Yeah, I know, I just have a little bit of news for you .  Um, you've been pwned .    What single book benefits most from having  " in your pants "  added to the title ?    I believe that would be the Flannery O'Connor classic, Everything that Rises Must Converge .  .  .  in your pants .    Will you please shave ?      Sure !    Do authors really put as much symbolism into their books as English teachers seem to think you guys do ?    Yes, we really do, I promise .   But the thing is, even if we didn't, it wouldn't really matter, because the reading experience would be equally rich with or without authorial intent .  What I'm saying is that if ten thousand monkeys writing on ten thousand typewriters happened to type out Hamlet, Hamlet would still be a really good play and a really rewarding thing to spend your time with .    Should I buy your books ?     .  .  . is the kind of question that's sure to get you featured on Question Tuesday .   And yes .    Is your book Looking for Alaska based on real-life experience ?    Mmmmmmmm .  .  .  .  yes and no .    What is the book you most wish you'd written ?    Huck Finn .    Who the eff is Hank ?    Hank is a small island in the Pacific Ocean .  First colonized by the Spanish in 1521, Hank is today known primarily for his beautiful coral reefs and large American military presence .    Do you believe in the paranormal ?    I'll tell you one thing: I don't believe in the normal .    If a monkey with a lightsaber battled a lemur with a lightsaber, who would get pwned ?    Frankly, I find it very difficult to imagine a situation in which either the lemur or the monkey emerges from that battle unscathed .  I mean, you have to remember that monkeys and lemurs don't know what light-sabers do, they don't know how they function, and they don't know what happens to you if you get in the way of its light beam .  Honestly, what your question makes me think is that we need to get to work on monkey-proofing our light-sabers .    If you and Hank found yourselves trapped in a two-meter-by-two-meter white room with no food or drink, who would get eaten first ?    I have a couple of questions about your question .  The first is: are you implying that someone would get eaten second ?  Furthermore, a two-meter-by-two-meter room only has two dimensions, and that means that we would only have two dimensions .  Now, I'm not an expert in two-dimensional people, but my suspicion is that they don't need food or drink in order to survive, so no one would have to eat anybody .    If you had a medieval battle cry, what would it be ?    Nerdfighters, tonight we dine in front of the TV while watching Battlestar Galactica .   But tomorrow, we dine on pizza while discussing Hank's punishment in the comments section .  Hank, I want to say thanks again to everyone who participated in the project .  Nerdfighters for the win !   And I'll see you tomorrow .  Scavenger hunters, my dad has your clue .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Thursday, December 20th, and today's video comes in four very special parts .  One: your song .  I liked it .  Although it did kinda make me sad, it also made me really proud of you because I realized that you have completed the song challenge .   And not to toot our horns, but we've also almost completed the project that is Brotherhood 2 . 0, and I have to say, Hank, I'm really impressed with us because you know my record of completing things that I set out to do .  .  . not so great .  I mean, like the sprawling young adult novel about eco terrorists living on pacific island: never completed .  My promise to weigh ten pounds less on January 1st 2008 than I weighed on January 1st 2007: not completed .  Although I still have 11 days to lose 8 pounds .  Look, Hank, yummy makes your tongue green .  I mean honestly, Hank, all I can do is eat healthy and hope that the weight comes off, you know ?  Getting Hank and Katherine their Christmas presents before Christmas ?  Not completed .  Oh, that reminds me !  Part two: your Christmas presents .  Hey, Hank, uh, your Christmas presents might not arrive by Christmas .  Now, Hank, I bought them before Christmas, so I don't even really think this is my fault .  I think it's much more the fault of the United States Postal Service who -- and this was a surprise to me -- has not yet invented a machine that will allow a package to go from one place to another place instantly .  I mean, Hank, we can beam Captain Kirk across the universe, but we can't send a package from Indiana to Montana ?  We can't beam Captain Kirk across the universe, really ?  I mean they did it .  Did you guys never see those documentaries ?  Part Three: your punishment .  Hank, it's no secret that nerdfighters get a little blood thirsty around punishment time .  I'm referring specifically to the young person who said that we should make you cry ten thousand tears and then boil those ten thousand tears and cook you in them .  So, before I talk about your actual punishment options, I want to talk about some of the punishments that nerdfighters suggested that I had to dismiss .   " Hank should have to release a squirrel or another rodent that won't hurt him into his undergarments !  "  I'm troubled by the fact that someone somewhere believes that it would not be harmful to release a squirrel into one's undergarments .  I mean, I think it would be triply harmful .  It would be harmful to the person, it would be harmful to the squirrel, and, perhaps most of all, it would be harmful to the undergarments .  WhatTheBuck says is that he should have to watch Ashley Tisdale's YouTube channel .  Gosh, Buck, he just textually communicated with me, it's not like he killed a man .   " Hank should have to consume an entire blenderized hummer .  "  That's an excellent punishment idea because it would require the purchase of a hummer, and we all know that the only think Hank hates more than fuel inefficiency is spending money .   But the more I thought about it, the more I felt that eating more than a thousand pounds of steel and plastic and leather might be harmful to Hank's health, particularly considering that there's only eleven days left in Brotherhood 2 . 0, so he'd have to average like a hundred pounds a day .   " I think Hank should have to purchase an Easter bunny costume and then get into a Battle Royale with the nearest shopping mall Santa .  "  That's an excellent punishment, but it might lead to the premature end to Brotherhood 2 . 0 because I don't know if you're able to vlog from prison .   " Make him eat a penguin !  "  Now obviously that's much more a punishment for the penguin than it is for Hank, and the penguin didn't do anything wrong .  I think the punishment would be to make a penguin eat Hank .   But I think ultimately having a penguin eat Hank is too harsh of a punishment for the crime .  I mean it's not watching Ashley Tisdale's YouTube channel harsh, but it's harsh .  Hank, as for your actual punishment, I have settled on two suggestions .  The nerdfighters will vote for their favorite between the two and then you will have to do that punishment .  Option one, you will eat a blenderized Christmas meal .  This meal will include, at the very least, Christmas ham, egg nog and Christmas cookies .  Option two, you will give a live performance of nerdfighting songs in a public place .  The concert will last for at least one hour, and you will accept donations which will be given to charities that decrease world suck .  Also, if at any point you need to drink anything to wet your whistle while performing, you can only drink peeps blended with strawberry hill .  Nerdfighters, to vote leave a comment, for your preferred punishment .  Part Four: The Scavenger Hunt !  Today's clue is going to lead to three numbers on three separate continents, but it all starts here, in the UK .   And remember scavenger hunters, phone calls are now strictly against the rules .  Hank, thanks again for all those great songs .  I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Wednesday, December 26, and I'm back where it all started, in Asheville, North Carolina, at Mom and Dad's house .   For the record, Hank, almost everything I just told you isn't true: it's not morning, it's afternoon, today is actually Christmas day, and by the time this video goes online, I won't be in Asheville anymore .  Movie magic !   I can't believe I'm sitting in the exact same place I was sitting three-hundred-and-sixty-one days ago .  I can't believe that was three-hundred-and-sixty-one days ago .  At any rate, we've had a wonderful time here with Mom and Dad .  I'll tell you one thing about Mom and Dad's house Hank: you can't beat the view .  Mom's been in a particularly good mood because I got a haircut .  Although, I do find it a little weird that Mom worries so much about the cut and styling now, even though when she had the chance to fully control the cut and styling of my hair, you have to say that her judgment was questionable .   Hank, I don't know if you've been here since Mom and Dad got the goats, but man, do they love those goats .  We have been spending a lot of time with goats over the last few days .  Now, I will be the first to acknowledge that Mom and Dad's goats are absolutely adorable, but I do have one very small criticism of them, which is that they poop constantly .  I mean Hank, when you're looking at evolution and trying to find out why humans became the dominant and most intellectual of all species, you have to conclude that what held goats back wasn't so much the lack of an opposable thumb or the smallness of their brains, it was the fact that it's very difficult to accomplish much when you have to poop every 11 seconds .   OK, enough of that .  I'm not here to talk about poop, Hank, I'm here to talk about Christmas .  Now Hank, it's no secret that I'm kind of a Grinch when it comes to Christmas, but when I got here and I saw all the presents under the tree, and the beautiful tree and all the ornaments, and Hedwig, I felt a little bit of the Christmas spirit .    Chc-chc-Nerdfighter Parents .     As Christmases go, Hank, I have to say that this was one of my favorites .  First there was the Happy Dance Project, which has made me happy pretty much every minute for the past several days .  I mean, I honestly think that for the rest of my life, when I'm sad, the cure is always going to be watching the Happy Dance Project .  Plus, even though I made a deal with most everybody either to exchange used books or just to give money to charity as a gift, I got some Argyle Socks .  Hank, there's a great line in a TS Eliot poem:  " Light is the visible sign of invisible light "  .  Well, Argyle Socks are the visible sign of the invisible nerdfighter .  Now, you and I made a deal that we were only going to exchange used books, so you got me some awesome used books, including A History of Christmas, and I got you some manga .  When I asked you what kind of manga you liked, you said, and I'm quoting you directly here:  " I like the weird stuff "    .  So Hank, I'd like to read you the description of the manga I got you:  Sleazy alien money-lenders, monsters on the rampage, and a ticking time bomb may all be in a day's work for Gin, but a drop in his blood sugar level means trouble for everyone !   I mean, Hank, it's manga about a diabetic samurai .  I hope that counts as  " the weird stuff .  "   But I have to say, Hank, my favorite Christmas present ?  Probably the book I got from Wynflete   .   Hank, don't be nervous about tonight, I'm sure you're gonna rock .  Well, I mean, to whatever extent a guy with an acoustic guitar can rock .   Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .   Two more quick things: First, I'd like to thank my dad for all his help with editing the Happy Dance Project, and second I'd like to remind all nerdfighters in and around Missoula, Montana to go see Hank's show .  Information about that can be found in the video info .                 
Good morning, Hank, and good morning, Nerdfighters .  It's Friday, January 4, 2008 .  Hank, it's the start of a new year, and I would like to suggest a motto for Vlogbrothers '08: The Vlogbrothers: Just because we're less frequent, doesn't mean we'll be better .  Hank, today's video comes to you in four parts .  Part 1: the new intro .  Do you like it ?  I hope you like it .  You designed it .   But Nerdfighters, do you like it ?  Let us know in comments .  Part 2: the new website .  In 2008, nerdfighting is gonna become more and more collaborative .   And to that end, we've built a new site using Ning .   " Ning "  is a fun word to say .  Ning .  Ning .  Ning .  Ning !  Ning !  !  !  It's like you get all the good parts of  " bling, "  only you don't have to spend money on jewels .  It's like Sting, but when he was still in The Police .  It's like  " cling, "  only no one ever broke up with me for being too  " ningy .  "  So anyway, we've built this new site using Ning, and now everybody can have their own Nerdfighter profile, and they can post Nerdfighter pictures, and they can post Nerdfighter videos, and have Nerdfighter blogs, and it's gonna be, like, the Kingdom of Nerdfighteria .  So everybody go look in the video info for the new site, then build a profile and become my friend .  Because Hank has more friends than me and I'm sad .  Part 3: the political situation in Pakistan .  .  .   .  .  . is very bad .  Hank, as I'm sure you already know, the former prime minister of Pakistan, Benazir Bhutto, was recently assassinated .  It's not yet clear who was responsible for Bhutto's death, but one thing is clear: Pakistan sucks a little more now that she's died .  Now, I'm not saying that Benazir Bhutto was a perfect person or a perfect leader .  When she was prime minister of Pakistan, there was a lot of corruption in the government .  All I'm saying is that she was a charismatic political presence and that she believed in the democratic process .  Which is more than can be said for certain presidents of Pakistan, and, yes, I'm looking at you Pervez Musharraf .  That's right, Hank, Musharraf, the dictatorial president of Pakistan, has used Bhutto's death to delay parliamentary elections that were supposed to happen this month .  I mean, Hank, to be completely frank with you, the evidence is mounting that Pervez Musharraf might be an asshat .  I mean, look at him, Hank .  Look at that asshat of a mustache .  Actually, it occurs to me that mustaches on world leaders in the 20th century: generally a bad sign .  Stalin: bad .  Hitler: bad .  Saddam Hussein: bad .  Kaiser Wilhelm II, the guy who gave us such wars as World War I: bad .  Genghis Khan: not a 20th century leader, but bad .  Actually, it occurs to me that as anti-democratic as Pervez Musharraf might be, in the context of other mustachioed 20th century leaders, he's kind of a winner .  Part 4: Hank, speaking of the political situation in Pakistan, I need to make an apology .  A few weeks ago, I made a video in which I ate a lot of peeps while discussing the political situation in Pakistan, and I accidentally referred to President Musharraf as Prime Minister Musharraf .  That was a significant error, and I apologize for it .   But Hank, I'm not the only person who has recently been confused about the political situation in Pakistan .  In two separate recent interviews, Hillary Clinton said that Musharraf was a candidate on the ballot in the elections that just got delayed .  As it happens, he's not a candidate on the ballot .  In fact, Hank, unless I'm mistaken, the people of Pakistan have never had an opportunity to vote for Pervez Musharraf because he's never been a candidate for elected office .  He, of course, took power in a military coup and has kept power since by being periodically re-upped begrudgingly by the National Assembly .  By claiming that Musharraf is a direct participant in the democratic process in Pakistan, Hillary Clinton lent legitimacy to his rule .  Which is more or less the same mistake that I made when I screwed up and called him prime minister .   But Hank, there's a small difference between myself and Hillary Clinton .  It's 3:10 in the afternoon, and I'm wearing my jammie pants; whereas, Senator Clinton wants to be our president .  Not that we're endorsing anybody .  Nerdfighters, I'm gonna do a Question Tuesdays next week, so do me a favor and leave your questions in the comments section .  Hank, Nerdfighters, I'll see you next week .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Monday, January 21st and today's video is, in one way, exactly like Theodore Dostoevsky's  " The Brothers Karamazov .  "   It's about patricide ?   No .   It's about free will ?   No .   Oh wait, does it come in four parts ?   Yes !  Part one: Puppy sized elephants !   Hank, in my last video, I wrote an open letter to evolution, requesting that evolution make me a puppy sized elephant .  Because it would have the evolutionary advantage of being adorable .  Now, Hank, we all know that evolution can take several million years to respond to requests, so in the meantime, all these made of awesome Nerdfighters made me all of these puppy sized elephants !  I'm sorry, Hank, but puppy sized elephants just blow puppy sized puppies out of the water .   I mean, Hank, just look at them !   And Hank, as I look at all of these puppy sized elephants, I can't help but think,  " Man, I wish there was a Photoshop for reality .  "  You know, so you could be like  " This looks pretty good, but I'm wondering if there's any way to maybe dwarf down the elephants, nerd up the humans, and maybe take that malaria layer and just get rid of it altogether .  "  Also, just a general recommendation: more rainbows .   Part two: puppy sized elephants continued .   Hank, the saga of puppy sized elephants does not end with Photoshop .  Right after I posted my last video, several brilliant Nerdfighters pointed out to me that evolution did, in fact, make me a puppy sized elephant .  Albeit, many thousands of years ago .   So there's this evolutionary phenomenon called insular dwarfism, which over time causes large animals in isolated populations to breed themselves smaller .  So, Hank, say you're a large animal, and you are .  During an ice age, you use an ice bridge to head over to an island and you like the island so you stay there .  Then the ice age ends and all of a sudden, you're a big animal stuck on a small island .  Over many generations, you'll breed yourself smaller so that the population can continue to grow despite limited resources .   The phenomenon of insular dwarfism has been seen in all kinds of large animals, like dinosaurs and humans, and elephants !   Hank, I'll be the first to admit that the puppy sized elephant would be cuter if it were not so .  .  .  dead .   But still, pretty cute !  It turns out that there were several different kinds of miniature elephants, some of which were so small that they were only like three feet tall .   Hank, it's believed that the last species of puppy sized elephant went extinct about 4,000 years ago .  It's not clear what killed them off, but it might have been people .  Oh, people, why must you ruin everything ?   In fact, Hank, if I ever do get a letter back from evolution, it's probably going to go something like this:  " Dear human, thank you for your letter .  We made you a puppy sized elephant, but then you killed it .  Fancy that .  You're welcome for your thumbs !  Evolution .  "   Part 3: my glasses .   Hank, people are still hating on the nerd glasses !   [Australian reporter] :  " Take off your glasses and apologize to us .  "   I'm sorry if they upset people, but I'm not taking off my glasses .   [Australian reporter] :  " Why not ?  "   'Cause .  They're famous .   Part 4: Projects, challenges and punishments .   Nerdfighters, you've been talking so much about how much you miss punishing us that we've devised a way that you can keep doing it .   Here's how it's going to work .  We come up with projects for you, and then if and when you complete those projects, as a reward, you get to punish slash challenge us in whatever way you see fit .  Although the wives still get veto power .   So, for instance, after the stunning success of the first annual Project for Awesome, you would have gotten to punish us .   And Nerdfighters, we're ready to announce your first project .  Many months ago, Hank wrote a song about Helen Hunt .  Your project, should you choose to accept it, is to make sure that Helen Hunt has seen that video, and provide proof that she has seen it .  If you can pull that off, you can punish us both !   Hey, is this Orlando Bloom ?  Yeah, uh .  .  no .  .  .  it's John Green, of the Vlogbrothers .  Right .  .  .  yeah .  Oh, I know, I know, it was funny that Harry Potter song .  Uh, I'm gonna need you to put on your elf ears and get out your bow and arrow .  Yeah, um, well I just received word that they're taking Hank Green to Isengard, and I'm gonna need you to go, uh, you know, get him .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Wednesday, January 30th and today's video comes to you in one part .  Part one: I am not a pornographer . Hank, you may remember that almost three years ago my first novel, Looking for Alaska, was published .  I just found out that Looking for Alaska is about to be taught to 11th-grade English students at Depew High School, outside of Buffalo, New York .  Alaska is taught in a lot of English classes around the country, but it's still pretty awesome to hear that someone is gonna like, teach your book in a regular English class, and people are gonna read it closely and think hard about it .  So here's what happened .  Because there are a few scenes in Looking for Alaska that some people find controversial, the Depew High School administrators and English teachers got together, and they wrote a letter saying,  " We're gonna teach this book .  We think it's pretty good .  If you're okay with your kid being taught this book, please sign this permission slip, otherwise the kid will read some other book .  "  So parents who are cool with their kids reading Looking for Alaska get to have their kids read Looking for Alaska, and parents who aren't cool with it get to have their kids read some other book .   But there were a few people who weren't happy with this solution .  These people didn't actually have kids who are in the 11th grade .  .  .  but no matter .  They think my book is pornographic and that it will cause immoral thoughts and actions in children .  These people believe that no one should be allowed to read the book, even those people whose parents signed the permission slip .      Now Hank, it's no secret that I like for things to be about me, but this really isn't .  Still, I have to tell you that when you're told that the novel that you wrote for teenagers is pornography, you start to feel a little bit, mmm .  .  .  mad .  I don't know exactly what it is that bothers me about that characterization .  I mean, it's not the -ography .  I wouldn't be mad if someone was like, 'We must get this book out of our classrooms; it's full of geography ! ' Or, 'No teenager should ever have to read this disgusting work of lexicography . '    No Hank, it's not the -graphy that bothers me .  It's the porn .  Pornography is designed to titillate .  Hank, I don't think there's a single halfway-normal person in the world who would find a single thing in my book in anyway arousing .  There is one very frank sex scene .  It is awkward, un-fun, disastrous, and wholly unerotic .  Hank, the whole reason that scene in question exists in Looking for Alaska is because I wanted to draw contrast between that scene, when there is a lot of physical intimacy but it's ultimately very emotionally empty, and the scene that immediately follows it, when there is not a serious physical interaction, but there's this intense emotional connection .  The argument here is that physical intimacy can never stand in for emotional closeness .   And that when teenagers attempt to conflate these ideas, it inevitably fails .  Hank, it doesn't take a deeply critical understanding of literature to realize that Looking for Alaska is arguing against vapid physical interactions, not for them .  Now, Hank, some people are gonna say that kids don't have the critical sophistication when they're reading to understand that .   And I have a message for those people .  Shut up and stop condescending to teenagers .  Do you seriously think that teenagers aren't able to read critically ?  When they read George Orwell's Animal Farm, do they head out to the pig farms to kill all the pigs because they're about to become communist autocrats ?  When they read Huck Finn, do they think that Huck should turn Jim in because the demented conscience of the community says so ?  When they read Waiting for Godot, do they think that it's cool to just sit around and do nothing ?  Well, probably they do actually; that one doesn't really work toward my point .  Now obviously, Hank, I don't think that a few parents should get to decide what the kids of other parents read in school .  Those parents are qualified to sign or not sign that permission slip as they see fit .   And to speak frankly Hank, it also pisses me off when small groups of well-organized would-be book banners try to take over America's public school systems .  Now fortunately, in Depew, there are a lot of teachers and school administrators and school board members who are standing up for my book and for the right of teachers to teach it, and for the right of parents to choose to have it taught to their kids .   But Hank, sometimes these people who make stands for intellectual freedom can feel like they're going it alone .  Which is why I'd like to ask from the bottom of my heart that any nerdfighters that live in or around Depew go to the school board meeting on February 5th .    Also, I've written a letter in defense of the teachers who would like to teach my book .  If you'd like to write a letter, send it to sparksflyup at Gmail dot com and I'll be sure to forward it on .  Hank, thanks to you and all the nerdfighters in advance for your emails .  
Good morning Hank, it's Friday, but in my heart it's Question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real nerdfighters .  Among all the vitriolic, poorly spelled, obscene and frankly not very nerdfighterly comments to your last video, there were also many excellent questions .   Are you doing any readings or public events in the near future ?  Yes, actually tonight, if you are over 21, I am going to be in Chicago performing at The Hideout with my friend Mark Bazer .   What happened in Depew, New York where a few people were trying to remove your book from the curriculum ?  A ton of people went to the school board meeting on Tuesday, which I really appreciate, but unfortunately due to like the obscure rules of school board parliamentary procedure, none of them was allowed to speak .  The five people who did speak all spoke out against the book, although several of them hadn't read the book .  One person said that he didn't have to read the book because, and I'm quoting directly here,  " You don't have to have cancer to diagnose cancer .  "  That analogy proves why we need good English literature education .  There's another board meeting on March 4th, more info soon .   Is there an official release date for Paper Towns ?  Yes, October 16th .  I know I said it was going to be September, but I was lying .  God I love lying .   Who the eff is Hank ?     " Hank is a veteran of the CIA directive operations and US Navy Seal Team three .  He is five foot ten inches tall, weighs 170 pounds and has green eyes .  Hank was an operative of the Third Echelon, a clandestine division of the National Security Agency .  Hank is extremely agile and an expert in the art of stealth .  When in the field, Hank prefers to work alone .  "   Who's more of an evil lady, Queen Ranopandria- Queen Rabodoandumpoiniarandum- rabadopandria- Queen Rabodoandumpandriarano-I WAS SO CLOSE !  Queen Rabodoand- Queen Rabadoand- Who's more of an evil lady, Queen Rabodoandriana Impoin i Merina Ranavalona I-YES I DID IT, I FINALLY DID IT-or Lady Elizabeth Bathory ?  First off I'd just like to say that the person who posed that question, that was an excellent spelling of Queen Ranavalona's first name, and second off, definitely Queen Ranavalona .   What do you think of nerdfighting cows ?  Obviously I'm in favor of them, I mean everyone knows that drinking milk from nerdfighting cows is the number one way to get your recommended daily allowance of awesome .   Middle brownies or edge brownies ?  Excellent question, edge brownies .   Is Looking for Alaska a great book or the GREATEST book ?  Oh YouTube user USAFjeff, you sure do know how to get yourself on Question Tuesdays .  Sadly, Looking for Alaska is neither a great book nor the greatest book, but I hope that it is, you know, good .   Lost or Heroes ?  Um, books .   Are there any puppy-sized animals who you think would be even better than puppy-sized elephants ?  Well it's no secret that I'm awfully fond of puppy-sized humans .   How nerdy is too nerdy ?  Let me answer your question with a question: How awesome is too awesome ?   Was the character Alaska in your book Looking for Alaska based on a real person ?  Yes .  No .  I mean, in some ways she's based on me, but in other ways she's based on other people .  There needs to be a word in the English language that encompasses both yes and no like 'nes . '  What is your favorite video game console ?  Strangely the answer to that question is also 'nes . '  What's your favorite anagram ?  Um, I'm pretty fond of the fact that Britney Spears anagrams to 'Presbyterians . '  Could God create a burrito so hot that even God couldn't eat it ?  I think that's what the Buddhists would call a question wrongly put .  Like I do think that questions about God's omnipotence are interesting, but ultimately I think the question for people of faith is how and whether God works in the world and how and whether we can participate in that work .   If two nerdfighters have a baby is the baby born awesome or does the baby have to develop into awesome ?  Good question, and I know just the person to ask: Brotherhood 2 . 0 resident mathematician and future state congressperson Daniel Biss .     " Quick question, when you were looking at the ultrasound of your new baby, um did it- did the baby look awesome ?  Okay thanks .  "  They're born awesome .   If you were forced to get a tattoo, what would it be ?  Well I really would have to be forced, but I'd probably get DFTBA tattooed on my hand so that way, whenever I walked into a room and I couldn't remember what I was supposed to do there, I could be like  " Oh, right .  I'm supposed to be awesome .  "   Who is that figure on top of your bookshelf ?  I believe you would be referring to my black Santa .  This will all make sense when you read Paper Towns .   Are you still sticking to the four minute time limit ?  Yup .                 
Good morning, Hank .  I know what you're thinking .  You're thinking,  " My older brother really needs a hair cut .  "  Well, Hank, I have one thing to say to that: NEVER !  Hank, the reason I haven't got a hair cut recently is that I'm trying to set an all-time, personal best puff level .  A record currently held by two year old me who looked like a girl .  Now, Hank, you're probably saying,  " John, your hair and your head can't even fit in the same video frame .  Surely you have a higher puff level now then you did back then in this picture when your puff level was probably only three inches .  "   But, Hank, you're forgetting something important .  At the time of my record puff level, I, myself, was only thirty-three inches tall .  That means that my puff was one eleventh of my size .  Well, obviously Hank, since then my body has grown, so if I'm gonna break the record my puff level is gonna have to grow too .  One eleventh of seventy-two inches would be like .  .  . eleven in mmm Hank, I think I'm going to have to call nerdfighter resident mathematician and future state representative Daniel Biss .  I did a really good job of saying that .  Uh what's one eleventh of seventy-two ?  Are you serious ?  You did it that fast ?  Alright thanks .  6 . 54545454545454 into infinity Hank, do you want to know why we need state representatives like Daniel Biss ?  It's because it took him less than one second to figure out what one eleventh of seventy-two is .  Hank, with those kinds of math skills, Daniel Biss is gonna pwn the Illinois state budget every year .  So, Hank, long story short: if I'm gonna break my personal puff level record I still have two inches to go .  I'm gonna do my best, but I bet the Yeti's gonna stop me from getting there .  Oh, Hank, speaking of Daniel Biss, on Super Tuesday, Daniel Biss won his primary election 100% to 0% .  Admittedly, he was unopposed, but still those are good numbers .  Oh, and that reminds me, Daniel is also a finalist for two Golden Dot Awards .  I dunno what the Golden Dot Award is, but I want him to win it .   And, Hank, I'm gonna ask all nerdfighters to go vote for Daniel here, or here, or possibly here because he's up against some pretty stiff competition .  In fact, Hank, in one of the categories he's nominated alongside John McCain, John Edwards, and Mitt Romney's five sons .  Alright, I gotta, I gotta take the hair down a notch .  I have to tell you the truth, Hank .  I'd begun to think that maybe the world of the in your pants joke had reached its natural conclusion; we'd found the funniest books that you could pair with in your pants .   And then I received an e-mail from nerdfighter Alyssa Rourke  .  While checking in books for third graders, Alyssa made an important discovery: Pooh Gets Stuck .  .  .  IN YOUR PANTS !  In your pants !  Pooh Gets Stuck in your pants .  Oh thank you, thank you, thank you A .  A .  Milne, the people at Dutton who decided to rip A .  A .  Milne off and turn his books into easy-readers, the person who came up with the title Pooh Gets Stuck .  THANK YOU ALL !  Hank, lastly, I'd like to address something sad that I think is on all of our minds right now: it's Valentine's Day .  Now Hank, look, I have the Yeti, you have the Katherine; things have worked out pretty well for us .   But it wasn't always that way .   And if you don't believe me you can ask any of the fifty-four girls who dumped me before I met the Yeti .  Now, Hank, obviously you and I are living proof that sometimes a nerd meets another nerd and they fall in nerd love, but the fact of the matter is that romance doesn't always come easily to nerdfighters .  The only time I really, fully enjoyed Valentine's Day was in, like, third grade when I had to make a Valentine for everybody and everybody had to make a Valentine for me because, you know, that was the only day that everybody in third grade was nice to me .  So here's my idea for to try to recreate that third grade Valentine's Day feel .  After we all go vote for Daniel Biss, we all head over to the Ning, and everybody makes comments in this video at the Ning .   And then we use those comments to go to each other's profiles to say hi to each other, Happy Valentine's Day, to make little comments on each other's profiles to try to make sure everybody's happy .  Maybe we can even make some new friends on the Ning .  So then instead of Valentine's Day being a day full of suck, Valentine's Day will be the day that you made new friends .  Hank, Happy Valenpenis Day, thanks for being awesome, and as the kitty hath wrote: kthxbai .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Thursday .  I can't talk to you with both my mouth and my hair, so I'm gonna talk to you with my hair .  Hank,as you can no doubt see the puff continues to grow .  Hank, I'd like to thank the yeti for her endearing support of my hair, although I have to tell ya I think I'm beginning to lose the will .  Enjoy the puff now, because the next time I see you I think it's gonna be gone . I'm going to try to break the world record for the most questions answered in a four minute period, but I need your help .  Leave your questions in the comments and if I don't answer them in the video I'll try to answer them in a gigantic blog post at the ning .  And now, the outtakes .  Take it away me from two weeks ago: " Corn dog meets mint chocolate chip ice cream in a dark alley- who wins ?  " Oh I'll tell ya who wins- everybody .  You fry up a corn dog, you stick it in some semi-melted mint chocolate chip ice cream, and you've got the greatest innovation in deliciousness since the deep fried Twinkie .  " What's your favorite graphic novel of all time ?  " There's a lot of great ones, but I'm gonna go with Maus by Art Spiegelman .  " If you were going on a long trip to the evil baby orphanage and could only take two CD's with you, which would they be ?  " A Love Supreme by John Coltrane and something by The Mountain Goats .  Although honestly, it wouldn't matter since evil baby Stalin is probably just gonna steal my CD's .  " You get to have a one hour conversation with a Disney character .  Who would it be ?  " Probably Mickey .  I'd like to ask him how it feels to be single-handedly responsible for the death of reasonable American copyright law .  " What's the most interesting nick name you've ever had ?  " One time in high school I made the mistake of saying that Christian Slater had never made a bad movie, and for a long time after that people called me Kuffs .  " Why do you think that all the most viewed vlogbrothers videos are by Hank ?  " I don't know .  Probably because he's funnier ?  Although in one case it seems to be almost entirely because the screen shot is of two giraffes having sex .  I don't know what that says about the YouTube community .  I guess it just says that  " We're people who love giraffes who love giraffes .  "  " If you had to pick one pattern to have all your clothes made out of, what would it be ?  " Definitely Argyle .  Honestly I don't even understand the point of wearing socks unless they're argyles .  " What's the most embarrassing song you know all the lyrics to ?  " When I'm not with you, I lose my mind .  Just give me a sign .  Hit me baby one more time .  " If you had to vote for a republican presidential candidate who would it be ?  " Definitely Abraham Lincoln .  Oh wait, do you mean like a living republican presidential candidate ?  Well first off, I don't vote for the party, I vote for the individual .   And second off, I don't want to vote for any of those guys .  " Why wouldn't you let Maureen Johnson who had read your new book Paper Towns talk about Paper Towns ?  " The same reason I won't let Hank talk about Paper Towns .  It's secret .  " A plane crashed and every single person on board was killed, but there were still survivors .  How is that possible ?  " Every single person on board was killed, but many married people survived .  Just one of the many benefits .  Oh hey Riddle, I've got one for you: What's the only word in the English language that starts with 'PW' .  " The Iliad or the Odyssey ?  " The Odyssey .  " Has Helen Hunt seen The Helen Hunt Song yet ?  " No, keep fighting !  " How old is the yeti ?  " Twenty-eight .  " Will we ever get to see the yeti ?  " I don't know, maybe, if you have a lot of money and can afford to go on long expeditions to Nepal .  " Which one of the presidential candidates would you most wanna play Twister with ?  " Hmm, that's tough .  I guess Mike Huckabee, because, you know, he doesn't look very flexible and so I think I'd have an advantage .  I would wanna play Twister with Ron Paul, but the problem with that is that Ron Paul's version of Twister only has yellow dots because Ron Paul felt that it would offer more freedom of choice and also be less expensive if the game eliminated the red dots, the blue dots, and the green dots .   And also the spinner .   And now Hank, I will be attacked by Ron Paul's minions .  Don't hate me guys, it was just a Twister joke . Nerdfighters, as always thanks for your questions .  Puff levels ?  I'm gonna miss ya, buddy .                 
So Hank a couple of days ago I had a fairly important phone call- like important enough that I can't tell you specifically who I was talking to- and I was pretty nervous about it because I always get nervous about phone calls .   But it was going pretty well and then when it came time for the phone call to end they were like  " Alright, well take care, talk to you soon !  "  and I said  " Best wishes !  "  Best wishes ?  You know they hung up the phone and they said,  " Did that guy just say goodbye to us by saying 'best wishes ! ' ?  "  So, just a memo to those teenage nerdfighters out there who are wondering if their self-consciousness will ever go away: yeah, no it won't . Best wishes .   Hank, as you'll no doubt notice, puff levels have gone down considerably .  When I went to the barber I said  " Can you just take a little bit off the top ?  I like it to be pretty long and messy, "  and she said  " sure thing .  "  I took off my glasses like I always do when I get a haircut .  Twenty minutes later I put my glasses back on, and I was bald .  She said, and I'm quoting her directly here,  " Is that short enough ?  "  No, actually, could you make it a little bit shorter ?  Because when I said  " just a little bit off the top, I like it long and messy, "  what I meant was  " I'm joining the Marines .  " So Hank as you know how today I was going to attempt to make a Question Tuesday video today where I attempt to break the World Record for number of questions answered in four minutes, but unfortunately it's going to have to wait until next Tuesday because I haven't even finished going through all of the questions .  Because there were more than two thousand questions .  So Question Tuesday will be next Tuesday, in the meantime, let's do some housekeeping ! Housekeeping item number one: If you live in or near Spartanburg, South Carolina, you should come see me speak about my books and sign them on Friday ?  Saturday ?  Saturday !  This Saturday I'll be signing in the morning and in the afternoon I'll be speaking at the Spartanburg Public Library Jamboread .  Jamboread is a nice pun .  It's like all the fun of a party, but with books . Housekeeping item number two: If you live in or near Depew, New York, and I know a lot of nerdfighters do, then please attend the meeting on Tuesday, March 4th, when they're going to talk about whether to keep my book Looking for Alaska in the curriculum at Depew High School .  You can find out more in the video info . Housekeeping item number three: the nerdfighter blurbing book club .  Hank, this is off topic, but I really like saying the word 'blurbing . ' Blurbing is one of those words that, when you say it, it sounds like your voice is turning into a robot voice .  Blurbing, blurbing, blurbing, blurbing, blurbing, blurbing .  Anyway, nerdfighters if you want to participate in the blurbing and potentially win fantastic prizes, you need to write a blurb about Maureen Johnson's book 13 Little Blue Envelopes of ten words or less and post it as a blog post in your profile at the ning .  We'll read them all, I promise .  The deadline is Sunday at midnight, then we're going to go to bed promptly at 12:01, get some sleep, wake up the next morning, and start the next book in the blurbing book club, Slaughterhouse Five by Kurt Vonnegut .  Which I'm picking because it's really good and I haven't read it for a long time .  Plus it's published all over the world so international nerdfighters can participate too .  And finally, housekeeping item number four: Hank, it's no secret that I really love two things: the first is nerdfighter babies and the second is when a nerdfighter finds another nerdfighter and they fall in nerdfighterlike .  I like nerdfighterlike so much partly because it makes me feel like, you know, if it wasn't for us, then there might be less like in the world .  Which is a really good feeling .   And a nice counterbalance to having people say  " I don't want to listen to this freak, I want to see giraffes doing it !  "  Hank, there's been quite a lot of nerdfighterlike going around lately, thanks partly to the ning, which allows, you know, nerdfighters to meet other nerdfighters and look at their interests and read their blog posts and see their pictures and everything .   But the particular reason I'm mentioning it is that the Vloglovers YouTube channel is back !  Noted secret siblings Abby 'songsfromahat' and Todd 'Toddly' are in nerdfighterlike .  Yay .  That's right, Hank .  They're touching, and hugging, and nothing else . Hank, speaking of nuclear chain reactions of awesome, I hope I see some nerdfighters in Spartanburg, South Carolina on Saturday, and I'll see you later this week, SINGING- I'm very excited but I'm not going to tell them what you're singing about . Hank, I think there's only one thing left to say . Best wishes !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Friday, March 14th .  You might be wondering why I'm wearing these beads .  It's because I'm in Mobile, Alabama, and I happened to walk past a parade .  Hank, I've been to Mobile, Alabama three times in my life and all three times they've been having a parade .  Hank, I'm forced to conclude that either people of Mobile, Alabama get really excited whenever I come to town, or else they have a parade every day .   By the way, I wonder where all these great beads came from .    Oh .  .  .  Yeah, probably from those shipping containers .   So Hank, the reason I'm in Mobile is that Sarah is curating a show that is opening here called  " Among The Ruins "  and it's great !   It includes all these contemporary artists from all over the world, like this Japanese artist who now lives in Queens who covered an entire house in the lower ninth ward of New Orleans two years after the storm with latex and cheese cloth, and then peeled it off so we have this like ghostly remnant of the house .   Or this Chinese artists who cuts his profile out of demolished buildings in Beijing .  Or these guys in Detroit who go to abandoned buildings and paint them orange .   Hank, my favorite thing about that project in Detroit is that the color they used to paint the houses orange is a Disney color called Tiggerific Orange .  It's Tiggerific !  God, I love ruins .  They're the rainbows of the future .   Hank, as much as I know you love the Yeti, I know it's probably not going to be possible for you to come and see the show in Mobile, but maybe some Nerdfighters who live in Mobile will have the chance to see it .  Link in the sidebar !   The only thing I absolutely have to discuss today is the Nerdfighting Blurbing Bookclub .    Blurb !  Blurb !  Blurb !  Blurb !  That's right Hank, it's time to announce the winner of the first ever Nerdfighter Blurbing Book Club .   Can I have a drum roll please ?  No ?  No drum roll ?  Drumrolls are copyrighted ?  Okay, no drum roll .  The winner is .  .  .   " Marvelous !  Ten !  There's hell in this non-stop teen jubilee !  " , which amazingly enough is an anagram of  " Maureen Johnson's Thirteen Little Blue Envelopes "  .  So the Nerdfighter behind that blurb will be receiving special prizes, although Hank, I couldn't quite find out who exactly that Nerdfighter was, but hopefully you know .   Hank, I also have another announcement to make, which is that I have decided without consulting you to declare a second winner in the Nerdfighting Blurbing Book Club !  That winner was the runner-up in the vote, who's blurb was  " Im in ur Yurups, greevin my aunt, kissin ur doodz .  "   In fact Hank, I like that LOLBook blurb so much, that I think I'm going to declare that from now on the Nerdfighting Blurbing Book Club will have two contests .  One a regular blurbing contest, and one a LOLBook contest .   So for instance, if we were reading Moby Dick together  , the winner might be  " Im in ur oceans, pwning ur walez "  .  Or if we were reading Hamlet it might be like  " I; in ur Denmarx, feelin ur ofeliaz, failin to make decisionz "  .   So beginning with the current book Slaughterhouse 5, there will be two competitions .  One for a regular blurb, and one for a LOLBook blurb .  Feel free to submit both .  The deadline for the Slaughterhouse 5 blurb is going to be Wednesday at midnight .    And lastly Hank, I wanted to mention a couple of YouTube shows I really like .  The first channel I want to mention is called 'musecast', it's a year-long conversation between five friends trying to break into the entertainment industry .   And the second is the Australian vlogger Frezned, who's just brilliant .   Alright Hank, that's all for me today, I've got to go back to looking at ruins .  I'll see you at some indeterminate point next week .      Ah actually I wanna do just one more LOLBook .  This is exclusively for people who have read one particular William Carlos Williams poem .   " Got u sum plumz, but I ated them, kthxbai "                 
Hey, Hank, it's John .  How's it going ?  Oh, me ?  No, I'm doing all right, I'm just you know, chillin' with my peeps .    GOD, this sweatshirt is tight .  It's not even a sweatshirt, it's a freaking corset .  I got it at a gas station in Kentucky and they only had mediums and, as we learned from the haiku shirt, I am not a medium .  Oh, that's better .  I can't tell you how good it feels to be swimming again in the ocean of large .   Hank, in the last few weeks, I've actually become the owner of quite a lot of Peeps-related merchandise .  For instance, there's this puzzle .  It's a great puzzle but if I might suggest one potential improvement to the Peeps corporation .  How about instead of making the pieces out of cardboard, you make them out of Peeps ?   Also, several weeks ago when I was in South Carolina, a Nerdfighter gave me these actual Peeps .  Now, some people say that you shouldn't eat peeps after Easter because they might go bad .   But Hank, we're not talking about milk .  We're talking about Peeps .  The expiration date on those Peeps that Nerdfighter gave me several weeks ago ?  November .  Of 2009 .    And now, Hank, although I know that Peeps rot your already sensitive gut, I am challenging you to a Peeps eating contest, with the winner to get .  .  .  some kind of magnificent prize !  Nerdfighters, please suggest what the winner and/or loser should get in comments .   Hank, there are only two rules: Three minutes of Peeps eating time; no cheating .   Also, since watching people eat Peeps for three minutes is really boring, I'm gonna intercut it with pictures of nerdfighter awesomeness taken from the Ning .   Okay .  I can do this, I can do this, I can do this .  I am the greatest Peeps eater of all time .    .  .  .  .    And time !   Oh my God, I feel awful .  About thirty seconds in, I REALLY almost had a reversal of fortune, but I held it down .   I ate twelve Peeps .  I ate four out of each of these in three minutes, meaning that I am actually half a Peep less good at eating peeps than I was a year ago .   Oh, Jesus .  Why did I do that ?  I thought it was going to be so funny, but it just hurt .   I'm going to go lie down and try to let the Peeps sugar course through my blood stream until things return to normal .   Remember to tell us in comments what should happen to the winner and the loser .                 
Well, Hank, the votes have been tabulated, and by account of four thousand three hundred thirty six to eleven, the Nerdfighters have decided we should make more videos more often .  As Hank Green would say:   Cue the intro !  Well hello there, Puff !  Haven't seen you in a while !  Hank, today's video comes in two parts . Part one, Question Tuesday .  Hank, this video isn't gonna contain a lot of jokes, so to make up for it, I'm gonna do a Question Tuesday next Monday, and it is gonna be joketacular .  So, Nerdfighters, if you could leave me a lot of questions in comments, specifically if you could ask me questions about a book or books so that I can have kind of a themed Question Tuesday on Monday, that would be super helpful . Part Two, World Suck .  I'm a big believer in giving money to charitable organizations like Save the Children and Oxfam because they do amazing work, and they do it with really impressive efficiency, but I have a bit of a problem with the way they raise money .  I mean, we all know the basic strategy .  You take a picture of children, preferably of children, preferably of them not smiling, and then you make it black and white so it looks more depressing .  Then you put some sad music in the background .  Hank, to put it in terms that a LOLCat could understand, the basic theme of your average global poverty charity advertisement is this:  " I'm in ur konshintz makin u feal shame .  I can haz money ?  " Now here's the thing, guilt works .  These places need to raise money, and guilt is probably the best way to raise money .   But the weird thing that those advertisements end up doing is making you think that the poor are in some way fundamentally different from us .  That they're, like, a them .   And so our minds have become this formulation -- we should help them .   But it's not a them problem, it's an us problem .  We need to help us ! The whole reason I've been thinking about this is because of a Nerdfighter named Shawn .  Shawn was in graduate school in Notre Dame when one day he decided that he needed to do something about World Suck, and so he moved to Bangladesh .  His project is called Uncultured, and he makes all these videos showing what poverty is really like in Bangladesh, and he's also been using money he was saving for an XBOX 360 to help kids go to school, and to buy pencils, and to do all kinds of amazing things .  Because like XBOX 360 money goes a long way in Bangladesh .  I mean, it costs less than five bucks for a kid to go to school for six months and yet every single day kids have to drop out because they don't have enough money . What strikes me as so amazing about Shawn is that he realizes that poverty isn't about them, it's about us, and he just went .  I'm gonna be honest with you, Hank .  I couldn't do that .  I mean, I worry about the quality of drinking water in Kentucky .  Nothing personal, Kentuckians .  You know I love you . This is what the Nerdfighters have taught me in the last fifteen months: There is no them .  There are only facets of us .  In fact, every time I've tried to imagine a them in the last fifteen months, there's been a Nerdfighter who's proved to me that that them is a part of us .   And that's no different for the kids Shawn's working with in Bangladesh .  They may not know In Your Pants Jokes; they may not speak English; they may not have high-speed Internet connections; but they're still part of us . So here's what I'm proposing, Hank .  Shawn's XBOX 360 money is only gonna go so far .  So we're gonna help him help people in Bangladesh .  This isn't charity; it's a kind of experiment in community .  So definitely give money to Save the Children and Oxfam .  Like, giving money to this project does not get you off the hook from real charity . So first we're gonna help Shawn .  Link in the sidebar .  I just gave myself a mustache .   And then we're gonna see exactly where our money goes, exactly who it helps, and exactly how it helps them, because Shawn's going to make videos on his Youtube channel .  God, I love the Internet ! Hank, on Youtube, I've made this video a response to one of Shawn's videos so you can see the kind of work that he's doing, and I really hope that you and the Nerdfighters will join me in helping to supplement his XBOX 360 fund . We're gonna get to see where every dollar goes .  I think it's a fascinating experiment, and, best of all, like everything I like in this world, it's all about us .  Nerdfighters, DFTBA .   And yes, that is real . Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Monday, April 14th .  I have three pieces of good news, two pieces of bad news, and one piece of terrible news .  First, some good news .  Nerdfighters are made of awesome .  Well, I know that's not really news but I still get excited about it .  Hank, I just want to thank the hundreds of nerdfighters on six continents who have given money to Shawn in Bangladesh .  Hank, we've raised more than $3,000 .  As Shawn told me in an email, that's a lot of money in Bangladesh .  Hank, nerdfighters, with Shawn's help, we're going to make a lot of people's lives a lot more awesome .  If you still want to donate, I put a link in the sidebar .  Finger-mustache !  Bad news: I'm not going to be able to do a Question Tuesday today .  Nerdfighters, thank you for your thousands of excellent, book-related questions .  I will answer as many of them as I can in four minutes, but unfortunately, for the reasons that will be outlined in the next bad news and the terrible news, I just don't have time today .  You have my solemn vow that I will do it by the end of the week or else you can punish me .  Good news: Hank, I finally received permission from my publisher to share the covers of Paper Towns on the video blog !  That's right, I said covers plural .  Hank, Paper Towns is gonna have two different covers .  The book inside will be identical, but you can pick, you know, whichever cover you would prefer .  Hank, there's a lot of reasons why we chose to have two covers for Paper Towns, but one of the main reasons is that the girl character in the book is kind of radically misapprehended by all of the people around her, and we wanted to capture two of the ways in which she is radically misapprehended .  Hank, I really like both covers and I hope everyone else does too, I'm kind of nervous, but here we go .  There are the covers of my new book, Paper Towns .  You can pick the yellow or you can pick the blue or you can order online and be surprised .  Bad news: taxes are due tomorrow .  God, I hate taxes .  Let's move onto some good news .  Hank, do you know what I'm holding in my non-video-camera-holding hand ?  That's right, it's an advanced readers copy of my new book, Paper Towns !  These just came out, like, three days ago .  Well, hello there, Margo .  You're looking very cute today .  So before the real book comes out on October 16th, my publisher prints advanced reading copies for librarians and reviewers and stuff .  They're like regular books, only lower quality .   And with typos .  Margo, when I put myself right next to you like this, I feel like I have a very large head .  Between now and the publication date, October 16th, I'm going to give away as many advanced readers copies as I can to nerdfighters .   And there's gonna be all kinds of, like, fascinating complex games involved in getting one of these advanced readers copies .   But because I don't really have time for anything fascinatingly complex today, here's what's going to happen: everyone who comments on this video at YouTube or at the Ning is going to get their name put in a hat .  My voice just cracked .  Haaaaat .   And then I'm going to pick a name out of that hat, and then I'm going to send this gally to that person .   And lastly, terrible news: The Yeti's sick .  Poor thing .  Hank, there's nothing that makes me more sad than seeing a sick Yeti .  In fact, Hank, to help you understand how incredibly sad it is to see a sick Yeti, I'm going to take you on a safari .  Okay, Hank, when looking for The Yeti, we must be very quiet .  We must walk quietly .  Shhh .  She's very sick .  She may be asleep .  Is that not the saddest thing you've ever seen in your life ?  Hank, you're awesome .  I'll see you - on Wednesday ?                 
So Hank, I just voted early here in Indiana and I got this sticker that says  " I vote count .  "  Now I may not have perfect grammar but I'm almost positive that  " I vote count "  isn't a sentence, but I'm thinking maybe they like, cut off something at the bottom .  Like obviously  " I vote count "  isn't a sentence but maybe what they meant to say was  " I vote Count .  .  .  Chocula .  " So obviously Hank I didn't do my Question Tuesday video last week, which means I'm gonna get punished .    Now you may be wondering why I'm doing my happy dance, it's because you're gonna get punished too !  That's right Hank .  Number one, you lost the Peeps contest, even though technically you didn't participate, and number two last week you made a video that was more than four minutes long that didn't include a photo montage and everyone knows that the vlogbrothers are not allowed to make videos of more than four minutes unless there is a montage .  So Nerdfighters, please leave suggestions for how we should be punished in comments .  Should it be a shared punishment ?  Should it be some kind of like, dual punishment ?  I don't know .  We've never had a simultaneous punishment before .   But now, belatedly, on to some book questions . Paper Towns, dedicated to the Nerdfighters, or no ? No, although you are in the acknowledgments . What's your favorite reference book about Islam ? No God but God by Reza Aslan . Who would win a fight between E .  Lockhart and Libba Bray ? Surprisingly, Maureen Johnson . Will you ever write a sequel to one of your books ? Probably not, but I might write a sequel to a non-existent book . Who's your favorite German writer ? Me .  Just kidding .  Goethe .  Goethe has individual sentences that pwn my entire body of work .  Plus, Goethe would have never said pwned . Whats your favorite book title to add  " in your pants "  to ? At the moment I'm pretty fond of Amy Krouse Rosenthal's Little Pea in your pants . I'm interested in conjoined twins, what are your favorite books on the subject ? Boy have you come to the right place .  I'm one of the few people who own more books about conjoined twins than there are actual conjoined twins living in the world .  My favorite conjoined twins non-fiction, One of Us by Alice Dreger .  Favorite fiction, I'm not gonna go with the obvious pick, I'm gonna go with God's Fool by Mark Slouka . Who is the most interesting author you've ever met ? I find Judy Blume very interesting . How long is Paper Towns ? Umm .  .  .  if you count the acknowledgments it's 308 pages . If you could write a biography of any famous person, who would it be ? Hank . What's going on with those people who are trying to ban Looking for Alaska ? The made of awesome school board of Depew, New York voted unanimously to keep Alaska in the curriculum . If you and Hank were characters in the book Into Thin Air would you survive ? I mean, absolutely, unambiguously no .  I would die on the walk to Everest . How come your web site is called sparksflyup . com ? It's taken from a line in the book of Job,  " Man is born to trouble like the sparks fly upwards .  " If the Yeti were a vampire would you want her to bite you so that you could spend eternity together ? Well, first off, your question presumes that I'm not a vampire, which offends me .  I mean, how do you know that I'm not a vampire ?  I'm very pale .  I've got bronze hair .  I mean, I'd be pretty fat for a vampire, but it's totally possible . Is there a book in print you wish you'd written ? Yes, I wish I'd written all of them .  I mean, think how rich I would be if I'd written every book in print . What's your favorite personification of death in literature ? It's in the  Andrew Marvell poem  " To His Coy Mistress, "  who is not yet in his pants . Any favorite poets other than Walt Whitman ?    "  And kisses are a better fate than wisdom lady, I swear by all flowers .  "     " I like a martini, two at the very most, after three I'm under the table, after four I'm under the host .  "     " I see thee better in the dark, I do not need a light .  "  Where is the Langston Hughes book ?  What is the point of having a cataloged home library when I can't find Langston Hughes ? What are your favorite last words from an author ? Emily Dickinson's last words were pretty good .  She said  " I must go in, the fog is rising .  "   But my favorite last words related author story is this: Edna St .  Vincent Millay died by tumbling down a flight of stairs, her head landed on a poem that she'd been working on .  The last line of that poem ?   " Beautiful this day, no matter who has died .  " What do you think Shakespeare would vlog about ? The poor quality of insults on Youtube .  By the way Nerdfighters, for punishing me, you're a bunch of fat-kidneyed gudgeons .  That's right, I called you a gudgeon . What's your opinion on Catcher in the Rye ? It's excellent, and if you disagree with me, and I say this respectfully, you're wrong . What's your favorite line in Hamlet ?  " The rest is silence .  "                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Monday .  Today's video comes in four parts .   And one rant .  How much wood could a woodchuck chuck if a woodchuck could chuck wood ?  How much wood could a woodchuck chuck if a woodchuck could chuck wood ?  I'm just practicing my vocal dexterity to get ready for my ranting- but first, part one: the Paper Towns giveaway .  .  . s .  Instead of giving away one book, I'm going to give away two: one to a random commenter on the Ning and one to a random commenter on YouTube .  First we are going to do the Ning .  Okay, I am generating a random number between 1 and 714 .  .  . 607 !  601 is Nate, 602 is Samantha, 603 is Dreamer, 604 is Apple, 605 is Shelby, 606 is Lexie, and the winner is Pablo !  Whose comment was: 'I'd adore a copy of Paper Towns . '  And now for YouTube !  I'm now going to generate a random number between 1 and 4587, I'm clicking the button now and the number is .  .  . 2610 !  That's going to be a hard number to find .  I was kind of hoping the number would be like, 8 .  The YouTube winner is user neonizer21, who has 48 hours from the posting of this video to claim his or her prize, otherwise it will go to someone else .  Part two: the political situation in Nepal- isn't bad, all things considered .  Hank, for the first time in a long time Nepal had a free and fair election- even though they chose to elect a plurality of Maoists who aren't known for continuing the tradition of free and fair elections- but even so, this represents serious progress for Nepal .   And it's also a good thing for me because it makes it less likely that I am again going to have to eat toilet paper- is a joke that you only understand if you've watched all of our videos .  Part two: inside jokes .  Hank, the other day the Yeti was watching one of our videos and she said to me,  " You know, I, uh, live with you, and even so, I don't get some of these jokes .  "   And I was like,  " Now when you say jokes, do you mean like cool or do you mean like the plural of joke ?  "  So I just want to say to all of the new nerdfighters, welcome .  We're glad you're here .  It will all make sense later .  Part three: Second Life .  From 5 pm to 6 pm Eastern US time, I am going to be in Second Life, more info in the sidebar  , or perhaps, in the sidebar   .  I am good at finger moustaches, but I am terrible at remembering where the sidebar is .  Part four: I don't really have a part four  , but I do have a rant .    I understand that there are a lot of things about human existence that are extraordinarily arbitrary like whether or not you get cancer when you're 30, or whether or not you're born in a rich country, or whether or not, when you're 26 you happen to meet the world's hottest yeti- but just because there are a lot of unfair things in this world that we can't do anything about, doesn't mean that we- I just used a double negative- doesn't mean that we don't have to do things about the things we CAN do something about .  Like, for instance, health care .  How do I know there's a better way ?  Because the United States is the richest country in the world but we have a higher infant mortality rate than Slovenia .  The life expectancy in America ranks 45th in the world .  We're behind Puerto Rico, which has almost the exact same political system as us, the only major difference is that all Puerto Ricans have access to health care whereas millions of Americans don't .  So when we think about the importance of having health care available to all people, that's what's at stake- not only the quality of our lives, but the length of our lives .   And perhaps more important than all, Hank !  Hank is at stake in this debate !  He has to go to the hospital and pay for it out of his own pocket, because in order to try to save money his doctor gave him a drug that is known to be unsafe, that is almost never prescribed in any of the countries in Europe that has socialized medicine- and not because he's poor or because he's lazy or because he's not trying hard to get health insurance- but because insurance companies literally will not cover him for any amount of money and the only thing that he ever did wrong was be sick .  There are facets of illness that are arbitrary and unfair and cannot be fixed but this is not one of them .  Now, maybe you're saying, 'Hank could go to work for a big corporation and he could get health care . ' The Wright brothers weren't working for a big corporation that offered benefits when they invented the airplane .  In fact, probably the thing that I most like about America is our entrepreneurial spirit which is literally being killed by this health care crisis .  Hank, I am really glad that I am going to see you on Wednesday .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Monday, May 5th .  Oh, shoot !  Stupid !  Stupid !  Stupid !  Um, Hank ?  The uh, nerdfighters and I, we uh, forgot your birthday .  Well actually a bunch of Nerdfighters remembered your birthday   .   And I guess since your birthday is today we haven't technically forgotten it .   But we didn't come together to use our cognitive surplus to make you something awesome .  Uh, God, Hank, I can't believe you got all those people to blenderize birthday cakes and eat them for me and then when your birthday comes .  .  .  nothing !  Nerdfighters, we've got to do something or Hank is never gonna forgive us .  I mean if we don't put together something awesome for Hank's birthday, he's probably gonna drop out of the channel entirely .  We're gonna have to call it Vlogbrother .   And then no one will like our show because everyone knows that Hank is the more popular brother !  Oh boy .  Okay, okay .  We've got to do something awesome .  There's only one problem: I don't have any awesome ideas right now .  I mean I was gonna try and make you a party-blower solo even though I'm totally tone-deaf, but then when I got here to my hotel in Atlanta I was like to the concierge,  " Hey, um .  .  .  where do you get all the party-blowers ?  "   And he was like,  " Sir, I'm not legally allowed to answer that question .  "  By the way Hank, my hotel in Atlanta ?  Very fancy .  In fact there's only one shortcoming: twin beds .  What is this, nanny's house ?  Okay, okay .  Everybody stay calm .  Hank is not going to leave the Vlogbrothers channel .  He's still my brother .  He's not that mad at me .  God, I hope he's not mad at me .  Okay, here's what we're gonna do .  First, everybody wish Hank a happy birthday in comments .  Then, everybody tell me a really, really good idea- like an idea that is distinctly better than blenderizing birthday cakes and eating them .  I will be back here tomorrow, that's right you heard me: tomorrow for the first time in the last sixteen months I'm going to make videos on back to back days .   And in that video I'm going to announce what we're going to do and when we're gonna do it .  By the way, Nerdfighters, thanks for all your punishment suggestions .  I think we settled on one .  Oh and Nerdfighters, by the way if you live in or near Grand Rapids, Michigan, on Thursday at 6:30 you can come to a library to hear me and Maureen Johnson and Hank Green talking stuff .  Details in the video info .  Hank- I'm really sorry that we forgot your birthday, so sorry that my voice just cracked .  Anyway, happy birthday Hank, even though I'm not totally convinced that you're getting older because everyone knows that awesome is immortal .  Happy Birthday to Hank .  Happy Birthday to Hank !  We forgot to do something awesome for the occasion, but we'll make up for it next week .  Happy birthday to Hank .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday, May 6th .  Okay Hank, so today's video comes in a number of parts, but I can't tell you how many parts in advance because I haven't had time to, like, go through and, like, map it out and everything because it's just, like, so crazy, busy here at the International Reading Association and I have a very limited amount of time in which to make this video, so I'm just gonna, like, do it as I go .  Huh, when I get, like, excited and busy, I get almost Hankian .  Hankian's a nice word .  It's like Nietzschean, but, you know, less frighteningly nihilistic .  Okay, part one: Hank's belated Birthday .  Nerdfighters, you should really go to the video that this one is a response to and look at the responses to those videos because a lot of people made Hank a lot of awesome presents in video form .  Thanks to everyone who did that, you make me look like less of a jerk as a brother, and I appreciate it .   But even so, we shouldn't pass up this opportunity to do something awesome, so here's what we're gonna do .  Nerdfighters, you have 15 seconds, or one photograph, to show yourselves doing something that Hank would think is awesome .  I'm gonna leave it vague like that so you have some room for creativity .  So Nerdfighters, you have until Saturday night at midnight to send your pictures or videos to sparksflyup@gmail . com, an email address which is repeated in textual form in the video info .  Part two: If you live in Indiana or North Carolina, please vote today .  Remember Nerdfighters, you vote count .  Chocula .  Part four: Eventful .  Wait, hold on a second John from 45 minutes ago, this is John from right now, and I've got a question for you .  You can't count to three ?  I mean I know you're bad at math, but let's just go over it really quickly .  First comes part one, then comes part two, then comes part three .  God, me from 45 minutes ago is so stupid .  So Nerdfighters, as you know from yesterday, Hank, Maureen Johnson, and I are going to be speaking together at this library in Grand Rapids, Michigan on Thursday at 6:30 PM .  Details in the video info .  This is something that we might want to do more often, so we've set up a profile at Eventful . com, and if you go to the link that's in the video info, or down here at the Ning, you can request that we come to your city, and then we might come !  Oh, Hank, by the way, my tripod for today's video, a stack of brand new Paper Towns galleys .  So I'm gonna give away an Advance Reader's Copy of Paper Towns to one of the Nerdfighters who sends in a picture or video to be included in the  " Hank Would Think This is Awesome "  birthday project .  Okay Hank, I really gotta go to this thing, but I'll see you tomorrow, like, literally, actually .  Hooray !                 
So Hank, the other day I went to my barber and I was like,  " Can I get a haircut ?  "   And she said,  " I'll cut your hair, but I'm not gonna cut your puff .  "   Now Hank, you and the nerdfighters may have been wondering why I haven't made a video in almost a week and a half .  It's not because I got this hilariously bad haircut; I've never been embarrassed to share my hilariously bad haircuts .   And it's not because I've been dealing with this gigantic pile of mulch, either .  Although when that pile of mulch initially arrived at my house, it was larger than my apartment in New York .  Nor is it because I've been fondling all the awesome stuff that nerdfighters brought us in Grand Rapids, Michigan, like this ceramic cup that says 'DFTBA' on it, and this book which is called  " Scruffy Teddy Likes to Play "  in your pants .  Scruffy Teddy, you need a bath because you are a dirty boy .   No, Hank, the reason I haven't made a video in almost a week and a half is that the Yeti and I have made an extraordinary acquisition that is unbelievably time consuming .  Hank, without further ado, allow me to introduce you to Bubbles the Nerdfighting Puppy !  Okay, we don't actually call him Bubbles the Nerdfighting Puppy .  I wanted to, but the Yeti was like,  " It's gonna be weird when we try to explain to people that he's a boy but his name is Bubbles the Nerdfighting Puppy .  "   And then, you know, everyone's going to be like  " Are nerdfigters for nerds or against nerds ?  "  which is a stupid question .  I mean, look at my glasses .   No, Hank, we call this adorable ball of fluff Willy .  Okay I'm just gonna keep talking while he does cute stuff .  Willy's full name is Fireball Wilson Roberts which is a reference to the first sentence of James Crumley's classic novel 'The Last Good Kiss' .   " When I finally caught up with Abraham Trahearne, he was drinking beer with an alcoholic bulldog named Fireball Roberts in a ramshackle joint just outside of Sonoma, California, drinking the heart right out of a fine spring afternoon .  "   Now Hank, Willy's a pretty adorable puppy, particularly when you're appreciating him through the medium of video so that you're not aware of the fact that he always smells a little bit like his own pee .   And I like Willy very much, but I have a message for all the nerdfighters out there who might be considering getting a puppy: Oh my God, it is so hard .  I mean, Willy pretty much requires constant attention, and when he doesn't get our full attention he makes this noise that's like all the kittens in the world have united with all the birds in the world and they've gone to war with monkeys and puppy sized elephants .  It's like Buddhist monk throat singing; he's doing seven notes at once .   Also, his favorite thing in the world to do is to go outside and make you think he's gonna pee, and you think he's gonna pee, and you think he's gonna pee, and then uh--oh .  .  .  He just lay down .  So sometimes I get pretty frustrated with him but then he'll be sitting across the room from me and uh--oh he'll do the thing where he turns his head to the side .  It's so cute !   And then I forgive him for everything .   So Hank, that's Willy .  I apologize for not making more videos more often, but as I'm sure you can tell, he's a bundle of joy and a bundle of work .  However, I am going to make up for my lack of videos last week by doing a punishment this week .  That punishment ?  I'm gonna do a video every day this week .  This is going to include two Question Tuesdays so, nerdfighters, please leave your questions in comments .  Also, with every video this week I'm going to give away one copy of Paper Towns to a random commenter .   And, yes, that includes this video .  For the purpose of this punishment, the week is going to be Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday .  I'm taking Friday off because as everyone knows Friday night is the Sabbath if you're Jewish, which I'm not, but I'm taking it off .   Hank, you'll see - Willy, Willy, come on, cooperate .  Co- No licking .  No - Hank, you'll see .  .  .  Hank, you'll see me tomorrow .  Katherine, happy birthday !  Willy, say  " Happy Birthday Katherine .  "  Say- oh, he's waving !    " HAPPY BIRTHDAY KATHERINE !  "  Oh yeah, did I mention that he's a talking dog ?                 
Good morning Hank .  It's question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real nerdfighters .  What's you favorite band ? I don't know probably rubber .  Oh wait you mean musical band .  I've said it before and I'll say it again The Mountain Goats are so jokes . Favorite Vonnegut novel ? Mother Night . Favorite Toni Morrison book ? Song of Solomon . How does Steinbeck's In Dubious Battle relate to the average teenager's life ? Well I guess it doesn't in any literal way but I don't agree with the notion that you have to be able to directly identify with characters in order to enjoy a book .   But what In Dubious Battle is really about is group psychology which is certainly important to teenagers and it's also about the relationship between the machine and it's cogs which is something you are just figuring out when you are a teenager .  I mean, not to sound like a cranky old man, but I think we have to get past the idea that art is something that's supposed to be merely pleasurable . Edward or Jacob ? Here's the thing about Edward Cullen by the way I'm getting ready for thousands of teen girls to throw rocks at me .  Edward is a very beautiful but very empty vessel in to which we can stuff all our hopes and aspirations and believe me I understand that people who are primarily ideas are a lot more attractive than people who are primarily people .   But I have to say in my experience being in love with a person who is mostly an idea is not really a sustainable situation .  All of which is to say, and nerdfighters please forgive me, Jacob . What's the key becoming a popular video blogger on YouTube ? YouTube just released this really interesting feature which allows you to see the demographics of your channel and one of the things we've learned when we've looked at the demographics is that nerdfighters are extremely loyal .  I think the reason for this is that nerdfighting isn't something that you watch us do it's something we all do together .  The other thing that we learned is that out of our 296 videos 294 of them have been watched by more women than men .  The two exceptions both feature giraffe sex as the center screen shot really ?  Men of YouTube you are freaking me out !  Please explain to me in comments what it is that fascinates you about giraffes who love giraffes .  So yeah if you want to become marginally popular on YouTube and help create a community that you feel really strongly about that's composed entirely of awesome then building a truly collaborative community is the way to go .  If you want boys to watch you I supposed the solution is giraffe sex . What would you like your last words to be ? I've always felt that romantic last words are almost without exception really lame .  The only exception I can think of is W . C .  Fields' last words were  " Gosh, darn the whole freaking world and everyone in it but you Carlotta "  Except he didn't say gosh darn and he didn't say freaking but even these aren't that romantic when you consider the fact that Carlotta wasn't his wife she was his mistress .  All that said, if I had the chance to say one last thing, I'd probably tell the Yeti I love her . How long have you and The Yeti been married ? Two years today .  by the way Hank and Katherine thanks for the sustainably farmed and beautiful flowers . Have you ever been really jealous of Hank ? No .  I mean sure he has eight of our nine most viewed videos but I don't take that personally .  I mean, that's not a reflection on me that's just a reflection on how great Hank is . By the way who the eff is Hank ? Hank is a tiny yellow song bird said to represent the soul of France .  Hank has an important but as of yet undetermined role in the omnictionary project . If you could choose between getting a million dollars and going back in time and punching Hitler in the face, what would you choose ? Hmm .  .  .  all right first I would take the time machine, I would go back in time, I would kidnap evil baby Hitler and I would put him in the evil baby orphanage in Tibet .  Then I'd do the same thing with Evil Baby Stalin, Evil Baby Idi Amin, Evil Baby Vlad the Impaler, Evil Baby Lady Elizabeth Bathory, Evil Baby Queen Ranavalona the first .  Then once we had a really solid class at the Evil Baby Orphanage I would sell the time machine and I'd get like 30 million dollars and I'd be able to fund the Evil Baby Orphanage plus I'd be rich .   But wait a second what if the guy I sold the time machine to went back in time to the moment I created the time machine before I got all the evil babies and he killed me and stole the time machine .  I mean then we'd have a Schrodinger's cat situation .  I would be both alive and dead and Evil Baby Hitler would live both in 19th century Austria and in 21st Century Tibet .  Oh my God that's our premise .  Hank I think the relationship between history and the Evil Baby Orphanage may have finally been solved .  The reason we need the Evil Baby Orphanage is because the second incarnation of Baby Hitler is still in the world and could still wreak havoc even though the first incarnation of Evil Baby Hitler also existed .  Great Scott we've got it .  Nerdfighters still one Question Tuesday to go this week and remember I'm giving away a copy of Paper Towns every single day to a random commenter so please leave your questions in comments . Hank, you'll see me tomorrow .                 
Hank, I have to make a housekeeping video today .  How am I gonna make a funny housekeeping video ?   And yes I know I have a lot of puff for someone who got a haircut ten days ago .   But the puff alone isn't funny enough .  People have seen the puff .  They know the puff .  They're tired of the puff .  I know !  Willy !   Hank, today's video comes in twelve parts: Odd parts, housekeeping even parts, Willy .   Part one: The winners of the advanced copies of Paper Towns for my punishment last week are Ning-users robfromcornwell and kelly38 who, by the way, I think has been watching us the entire 16 months so that's pretty cool .   And YouTube users juliax, darkbluecoffee, and martinaofsweden .  Man I hope Martina is of, like, Sweden, Ohio or else I'm gonna pay a fortune in shipping costs .  Send an email to sparksflyup@gmail . com with your address to claim your prize .   Part two: Willy has a new trick !  Hey Willy !  Sit .  Yes .  Good boy !   Part three: The nerdfighting-blurbing book club will be returning in the near future .  Please let us know in comments what book we should pick next .   Part four: It's one thing to enjoy chewing shoes, but Willy wants to inhabit the shoe .  He wants to become the shoe .  He wants his self to be annihilated into the bright shining light of shoeness .   Part five: The 2008 Hank and John Green Great American Tour To Nerdfighting .  Featuring hopefully The Katherine and occasionally the Yeti .  That's right nerdfighters of America and hopefully a couple places in Canada .  Mark your calendars for November because we believe .  .  .  Sorry sometimes I catch myself in the viewfinder and I see my hair and I crack up .  .  .  .   But the point is that we believe that what happened in Grand Rapids can happen everywhere and we're going to go everywhere, hopefully .   And hopefully you'll come visit us .  By the way, if you're a librarian who'd be interested in hosting/sponsoring a public event featuring us, please email sparksflyup@gmail . com .  I know I said that fast but it's in textual form either over here, over here, or down there .   Part six: Casts .  So Willy had to get a new cast because he ate the last one because he loves the taste of cast and so then when they gave him his new cast they put a heart on it .  A heart ?  You can't be the Dread Pirate Fireball Wilson Roberts with a heart on your cast .  Anyway, I'm sure he'll eat through that cast in a matter of days so .  Hopefully next time we'll get a skull and crossbones .   Part seven: T-shirt design contest .  We're having one .  Due to part five .  Email your t-shirt designs to, is it getting old yet ? , sparksflyup@gmail . com .  The winners will receive some seriously fabulous prizes that we will not deliver to them for like six or seven months .  Sorry in advance .  God, we are bad at prize delivery .  We're like the opposite of Ed McMahon .   Part eight: Boy is Willy cute when he's not peeing on anything .   Part nine: Omnictionary .  Gosh, a lot of interesting stuff is happening on omnictionary . com where nerdfighters are using the form of a wiki wiki wookie to write a novel .   But there also seems to be a strong desire to have like an actual nerdfighter encyclopedia which I think is a good idea .   But it's not an idea for omnictionary .  In fact we used to have something very much like that thanks to the hard work of executive vice president for nerdfighting in Australia, Stewart Kiddo .  I'd love to see a nerdfighter encyclopedia recreated if you know how to make a wiki and can host one please email, that's right, sparksflyup@gmail . com .   Part ten: Look, he's a little wolf !   Part eleven: New challenge .  Now, nerdfighters, as you know there's a standing challenge that if anyone can provide proof that Helen Hunt has seen or heard the Helen Hunt song then you can challenge us in any way you see fit, although our wives have veto power .  Ms .  Hunt has so far proved elusive, but today I'm announcing a second celebrity related challenge .  The other day I was looking on YouTube at one of the most subscribed lists and I saw this: Down there at the bottom on the left .  That's us .  Up there at the top, Oprah .  Now Hank, it's no secret that when it comes to recruiting new nerdfighters, Nerdfighterians value quality over quantity because we don't want to dilute the awesome .   But Hank, we are a mere 6,000 subscribers away from pwning Oprah !  Admittedly, 6,000 subscribers is a lot, but still .  .  Nerdfighters, if and when we pwn Oprah you can challenge us in any way you see fit .  It doesn't matter how it happens, I just want to state for the record that pwning Oprah would be the greatest accomplishment of my life .   Part twelve: Best wishes !   He's like, " You woke me up from a nap to hold me in front of a camera and say 'Best wishes ? ' "  .   And then I tried to explain to him the  " Best Wishes "  joke, but of course he doesn't get it because he hasn't seen all the videos yet because he's still a baby .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Thursday, June 19th and today's video comes to you in three point five parts, because I'm tired of making four part videos .  Part one is going to be an apology to Toby and Tobians, part two is going to be a plug for Brotherhood 2 . 0 Resident Mathematician and Future State Representative Daniel Biss, part three is going to be sixty seconds with the fourteenth century and part three point five is going to be  " ask not what Nerdfighteria can do for me, ask what I can do for Nerdfighteria .  "  Phew, that was a big breath . Part one: Hank, in your last video, you proposed that the opposite of  " nerdfighterly "  was  " tobian "  .  Hank, I hate to point this out, but I think that might have been a mistake .  First we started receiving comments from Tobies, who were like  " Hey, uh, my name is Toby and I'm a Nerdfighter, and, um, why did you just do that to my name ?  "  Then we got three emails from people whose last name is actually Tobian .   And then the straw that broke the camel's back came when several anthropology Nerdfighters pointed out that we were in fact insulting the 22 remaining residents of the island of Toby in the South Pacific, who by the way speak an extremely endangered language called Tobian .  In fact, the central reason that there are so few people on the island of Toby is that the island of Toby is shrinking due to rising sea levels .  I don't think we need to add to these people's troubles by making their ethnic identity synonymous with lameness .  So Hank, to apologize to Tobies and Tobians throughout the world, I am proposing that we remove Tobian from the Nerdfighter vocabulary and replace it with the word  " decepticonian " , which has kind of a nice Draconian ring to it, you know ? Part two: Hank, as you know, Brotherhood 2 . 0 Resident Mathematician Daniel Biss was one of the very first Nerdfighters, and you also know that he's running for State Representative, and you also know that his wife is pregnant .   But here's something you don't know: his wife isn't pregnant anymore because she had a baby, Elliot Austin Biss !   And now I shall do my seated-in-my-chair happy dance .  Yay Daniel ! Now Hank, I know we were all rooting for Daniel and Karen to name their baby John Hank Bubbles the Nerdfighting Baby Biss, but you have to admit that Elliot is also a good name .  So anyway, this is probably the last time I'm ever going to talk about politics on this channel, but I really do believe in Daniel's candidacy, and also I believe that it would be very funny if Hank went to the Sex and the City movie dressed as Carrie Bradshaw; please consider making a donation to Daniel via ActBlue over there or possibly over there, and welcome to the world, Elliot ! Part three: Sixty seconds with the fourteenth century !  Hank, I was inspired by a post over at my friend Lindsay's blog to wonder what I would say to the people of the fourteenth century, if they could watch a video that I made that could only be sixty seconds long .  OK, sixty seconds with the fourteenth century .  And, go ! Hi, John Green here from the distant future .  I know these make me look weird but they help me to see better .  The plague is spread by rats, you should try to kill them .  Also the plague itself is like a little miniature animal, it gets inside of your body and then it pwns you .  I know this sounds crazy but if you eat the right amount of the fungus Penicillium you can kill the plague inside of you .  Generally to prevent the spread of these invisible monsters you want to wash your hands and body a lot with water and soap .  Also leeches don't work .  New subject: science .  The earth is round, the sun is at the center of the solar system, the speed of light is invariant, the Moon is not made of cheese, it's made of rock, it turns out the question of how many angels you can fit on the head of a pin isn't very interesting, and if you put a cat inside of a box with poison and you close the box, the cat is both alive and dead until such a time as you open the box .  Next: the future course of history .  If you don't live in Europe, or indeed, if you don't know what the word  " Europe "  means, you're about to be in big trouble .  Listen closely, peoples of non-Europe: if you see a dude that looks like me, kill him !  DFTBA, people of the fourteenth century . Part three point five: Ask not what Nerdfighteria can do for me, ask what I can do for Nerdfighteria .  Hank, in the last few weeks we have been asking a lot of the Nerdfighters .   " Give money to Daniel Biss !  Send us your Tetris pieces !  We want your t-shirt ideas !  Make me a collaboratively-written novel !  "  So Nerdfighters, let me ask: what can I do for you ?  Do you want me to do jumping jacks ?  Make some pudding ?  Recite an Edna St .  Vincent Millay poem shirtless ?  Let me know what I can do for you in comments, and I'll do ten of those things in a video I film this weekend .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's .  .  .  what day is it ?   Sunday ! It's Sunday !  In LA . Hank, that lovely introduction was filmed three days ago back when I was still young and promising and it wasn't six o'clock in the morning .  I'm sorry, there's not going to be a Question Tuesday today; I'll do it soon, but in the meantime, let's kick it old-school .  Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday, July 1st, and as you can tell from the grey, speckled walls behind me: I'm in an airport .  Get used to these walls, Hank: You're going to be seeing a lot of 'em between now and October . So Hank, you may be wondering why I sound like Kermit the Frog with late-stage emphysema .  It's because I've spent the last five days talking .  I've been here in sunny Anaheim, California for the American Library Association annual conference which is like, I mean --  Attention Los Angeles International Airport travelers: The TSA .  .  .  .   Oh, has-, has-, has the TSA limited the items that can be carried on to the flight ?  Thanks for that helpful information, TSA: I don't know how I would have known it if you hadn't said it four minutes ago .   And four minutes before that .   And four minutes before that .   And, indeed, every four minutes that I'm in an airport in my entire life .  Which is, of course, a full twenty percent of the time .  But anyway, Hank, I've been at ALA conference readin' books and talkin' about books and thinkin' about books -- Nerdfighters !  -- and whenever I go to ALA conference I get so excited that I like, literally, cannot shut up for four days .  I mean, Hank, this is consistently the most fun I have, professionally, every year, because I love librarians .  They are so fun to hang out with .  Librarians are like, the secret superheroes of the world .  The conference was absolutely fantastic and I had a great time, but, uh, one funny thing did happen to me . So, I was at the convention signing copies of  " Looking for Alaska "  and  " An Abundance of Katherines " , and generally, Hank, it must be said that when you're signing autographs for people, they like your book, like, that's why they're standing in line to have it signed .   And everyone was nice, except for this one woman .  She was this very sweet-looking old lady and she handed me her copy of  " Looking for Alaska " , and she said  " I really love the first half of your novel .   But the second half, it just completely fell apart .  "   And I was like,  " Well, I really like the first half of your comment !  " Other than the lady who didn't like the second half of  " Looking for Alaska " , my conference was mostly people coming up to me and saying  " Where's Hank ?  "   " Is Hank here ?  "   " Did you bring Hank ?  "  .   And the answer to all of those questions, Hank, is, of course, that you could not be at ALA convention this year because you were busy training your body and mind to get in shape for meeting tens of BILLIONS of Nerdfighters on the Great American Tour de Nerdfighting 2008 in which awesome shall happen IRL . Hank, speaking of awesome, I continue to be amazed how much you and the Nerdfighters and also all the librarians in the world are made out of it .                 
Good morning, Hank it's Tuesday, July 7th and this is not some kind of fancy camera trick I am really that pale .  So Hank today I'm going to do a question Tuesday today, but instead of doing a few questions quickly I am going to do a few questions lengthily .   But err before I do that I have to change shirts because right now I match the wall .  Movie magic . Was brotherhood 2 . 0 originally your idea or was it Hank's ? Well the initial idea was mine but it has to be said that I have a crazy idea at least once every 45 minutes and I count on Hank to be like that is a terrible idea and when I pitched him the idea for Brotherhood 2 . 0 he was like  " That is not terrible "  So we did it . What did you do before you became an author ? For most of my post college life I worked at this wonderful magazine called  " Booklist " , but I also worked as a hospital chaplain at a children's hospital and I worked at like a Steak and Shake doing the graveyard shift which I do not recommend . I mean honestly if anyone is thinking of dropping out of college get thee to Steak and Shake . What are the best books for aspiring writers to read as inspiration ? I'm going to have to say my books .  In fact I'm going to have to say the best way to get inspired to write is to buy 20 or 30 copies of each of my books . I'm sorry .  You know, when you finish a book they want you to transform from an extraordinarily pale nerd who sits in a basement and writes all day to some kind of like selling machine .  So I'm trying to practice a little bit but really all I want to do is stay home, make videos, eat Peeps and hang out with Willy . What's the meanest thing you ever did to Hank ? Hmm .  .  .  I think I may have tried to kill him once with hammer when we were little .  Wait or did he try to kill me ? I'm calling mom . Hey !  It's John . Quick question for you .  Umm .  .  .  did I try to kill Hank with a hammer when I was little ?  He tried to kill me ?  Pwned .  Did I ever try kill Hank in any way at all ?  Oh I did, shucks .  What did I specifically try to try to kill him though ?  I tried to smother him, that's not, that's just hugging though that's not killing . These are all very bad behaviors like it's bad to pour red cough syrup all over the bedspread but it's nothing like Hank trying to murder me with a hammer .  I'm sure I was being irritating but Hank tried to kill me with a hammer !  I fell like I am really getting the short end of the stick here .  Like you're, like, oh well he did try to murder you with a hammer but there was that one time you spilled red cough syrup on the bedspread and then gave him a big hug .  I'm sorry if I tried to smother Hank by giving him a hug because I loved him so much and then he tried to kill me with a hammer .  OK so there you have it .  According to my mom, the meanest thing Hank ever did to me was try to kill me with a hammer and the meanest thing I ever did to him was spill some red cough syrup on his bedspread and then hug him too hard .  And yet somehow mom seems to be making the case that I was the inferior sibling . How often do you get recognized; does it make you feel happy or slightly awkward ? I get recognized pretty often if I'm in a big public space but it doesn't make me either happy or slightly awkward .  It's just kinda nice to meet a nerdfighter .  Like the other day I was standing in line for the Indiana Jones ride at Disneyland and someone tapped me on the shoulder and said  " Are you from YouTube ?  "  and then this little brother who had never heard of nerdfighters looked up at me and said  " are you wearing a disguise ?  "  I was like  " Nope, these are real .  " What advice do you have for writers who can't seem to finish their books ? Not much .  I mean it took me 4 years to finish Looking for Alaska so I'm clearly not an expert in the field of finishing .  Just keep at it . Can I have one of the advanced readers copies of Paper Towns ? Umm .  .  no because I don't have any .  In fact the people who all ready want advanced readers copies of Paper Towns are still waiting for them, a situation which I hope to rectify tomorrow .  However I do have three of these beautiful and very rare Paper Towns discussion guides .  Which I flagrantly stole from my publisher and then like literally like put in my shirt and walked out the convention center .  So if anybody wants one of these which actually will be really helpful and interesting when you read the book, leave me a question in comments that I can answer when I do one of these next . By the way do you guys like the paperback cover of the Abundance of Katherines coming out on August 8th for a mere $3 . 99 ?                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's the hottest day of the year, so far, and you know what summertime means .  .  .  It means it's time for us to use our critical analysis skills to read with thoughtfulness and depth .  Hoo-hah !  Nerdfighters !      So, Hank, as you know the current Nerdfighter Blurbing Book club book is none other than The Catcher in the Rye by J .  D .  Salinger .  The Catcher in the Rye is J .  D .  Salinger's most famous published work, but it's not the only book he ever put together .  He also did Franny and Zooey and Nine Stories and this book which has Raise High the Roof Beam, Carpenters and Seymour: An Introduction .   This book has a very interesting dedication !  I want to read it to you:  " If there is an amateur reader still left in the world, or anybody who just reads and runs, I ask him or her with untellable affection and gratitude to split the dedication of this book four ways with my wife and children .  "   Now, Hank, let's put aside the fact that soon thereafter Salinger left his wife for a nineteen year old girl and hasn't been a particularly good father to his children and focus on what Salinger calls the reader who reads and runs .  Now, you hear a lot of people say that when we try to read books critically we ruin them or we analyze them to death or we think about them too hard and they cease being interesting to read .  One of the reasons that metaphor and symbolism are so important to books is that they're also important to life .  Like, for example, say you're in high school and you're a boy and you say to a girl,  " Do you like anyone, right now ?  " - that's not the question you're asking !  The question your asking is,  " Do you like me, right now ?  "  In the exact same way on page sixty of The Catcher in the Rye when Holden asks the cab driver what happens to the ducks in the pond when the pond freezes over, he's not asking about the ducks .  He's asking about himself .  What happens to me in the dead of winter, when the pond freezes over .   That's one of the primary ways that metaphor works .  It's a way into the hardest, deepest questions, and you don't have to be able to intellectually grasp the best metaphors in order for them to work on you emotionally .  Look, Hank, I understand why Salinger might have found the incessant analysis of his novels intrusive and painful .  I understand why he would appreciate the reader who reads and runs but this isn't about him- although, if you're watching this, J .  D . , I think you're awesome, but um .  .  .  Could you stop doing it with nineteen year olds ?  You're embarrassing yourself .   You don't read a book to appease and author .  You read a book because you want to .   And it is my strongly held opinion that a book becomes richer and more vibrant when we read closely and think hard about it .  To that end, Hank, in the next two weeks I'm going to make two videos about Catcher in the Rye .  One that's about the first half .  One that's about the second half .   And I'm gonna be totally English teachery about it !   And I don't care !  So, if you want to read the book, if you could read the first half by, say like, Tuesday .  Like, say to the end of chapter fifteen .   And then we'll talk about it and then everyone on YouTube will be like,  " Oh my god .  Critical analysis is so fun .  It's like all the best parts of LisaNova plus all the best parts of Smosh .  "   And just a few quick things to think about during the next week, when you're reading the first half .   Number one: in response to the common criticism that Holden Caulfield, the narrator of The Catcher in the Rye, is unlikable, I regret to inform you that you are also unlikable .  So am I .  There's this weird but pervasive feeling in the world of contemporary coming of age fiction that characters ought to be like either the person you want to be or the person you want to be with, and I'm happy to acknowledge that Holden Caulfield is not the guy you want to be or the guy you want to be with .  He's not Edward Cullen .   But he is the guy you secretly know yourself to be .  Which, I would argue is the end much more interesting .   Number two: the red hunting cap, be on the lookout for it .   Number three: something that I think is really important when you're reading this book is to bear in mind that there are two stories going on .  There's the story the Holden is telling and there's the place from which he is telling it, now .  There's the Holden he's telling the story about and there's the Holden that is telling the story .  Which, I ultimately think is really important .  Also, I don't know what's wrong with me .  I'm doing a lot of Hank Green gesticulations, today .  Haaaa !   Mm, I think we all wished that hadn't happened .  So, yay !  Let's read Catcher in the Rye .  Hank, that was an awesome song about book eight .  Nerdfighters, thank you so much for your Willy sounds .  In fact, if you would email your Willy sounds to me at sparksflyup@gmail . com, I want to make a compilation video with Willy doing his constant head turn because a ton of your videos made him turn his head .  Aaand, oh !  If you live in or near Grand Haven, Michigan, I will be there on the afternoon of Monday, July 28th .  More info in the sidebar .  Hank, I'll see you later this week .   *sniffs book* It still smells like my boarding school .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's time to belatedly talk about the first half of  " Catcher in the Rye "  .  By the way grammar nerdfighters, I apologize for splitting that infinitive .  So I want to apologize for making this video late .  I know this isn't an excuse but my whole life I've basically been that kid who asks for an extension .  .  .  and I guess I'm just clinging to my childhood .  JUST LIKE HOLDEN CAULFIELD !  Okay, let's begin by summarizing everything that happened in the first fifteen chapters in one long sentence: Okay, a year after all this happened Holden Caulfield sits down to tell the story of how he got kicked out of a fancy prep school, got in a fight with one of his friends, took a train to New York, caught a cab to a hotel where he asked a lot of weird questions about ducks, went to the hotel, had some drinks with some women at the bar at the hotel, then left the hotel, caught another cab, asked more weird questions about ducks, then went back to the hotel, met a women who is definitely a prostitute after earlier in the book not meeting a women who is maybe a prostitute, then didn't do anything with the prostitute, went to bed, woke up the next day, had breakfast with some Nuns, and that's the end of the first fifteen chapters .  Oh, except for the fact that the entire book he's like,  " why am I putting on and taking off this red, hunting cap ?  "  Poor Holden, your putting it on because it's your protective shield .  Now Hank, whenever people talk about  " Catcher in the Rye "  they always talk about adolescence as the tension between innocence and experience and I think that's right on, but I also think that that's more interesting to talk about after you've read the whole book .  Instead, maybe just because I'm sitting in a hotel room alone on a Saturday, I want to talk about how incredibly lonely it is to be sitting in a hotel room alone .  Like the beginning of chapter nine .  Chapter nine starts out  " The first thing when I got off at Penn Station, I went into a phone booth .  I felt like giving somebody a buzz .  "  So who does he call ?  NOBODY !  HE HAS NO ONE TO CALL !  I mean its the equivalent of opening up your cell phone, scrolling through your contacts and realizing that there is no one on that list who wants to talk to you .  Even if you're rich and everything going for you, that is a profoundly un-jokes experience .  Then when he's on his way to the hotel he tries to talk to the cab driver about a question that's really important to him:  " what happens to the ducks in the Central Park pond in winter ?  "   And the cab driver won't take him seriously .  Then he calls this girl who is possibly/probably a prostitute, and even she won't talk to him !  I mean Jesus, when you call a prostitute and she won't talk to you, you are in dire straights .  Pretty much for the whole first half of the book all he is trying to do is talk to someone .  So no wonder he needs a security blanket, no wonder he puts that red hunting hat on after his teacher humiliates him .  No wonder he only takes it off when he's in a situation where he knows that adults will be making fun of him for wearing it .  I mean anybody whose held onto a stuffed animal a little bit to long because it provided them comfort knows how that hunting cap feels to Holden .   And Hank I'm not specifically referring to you although I do believe you still have that stuffed ferret .  Okay, before I briefly talk about Holden and the ladies, I want to talk about one more way that Holden is trying to protect himself from the pain of his world .  When I was reading Catcher this time I kept noticing how often Holden says  " you "  when he means  " I "  .  Like in chapter eleven he's talking about holding hands with Jane and he says;  " you never even worried with Jane whether your hand was sweaty or not .  All you knew was you were happy .  "  Of course he doesn't mean that you were happy, you weren't holding hands with Jane .   But to put himself back in that place is so painful, partly because he's remembering the feeling of intimacy with a person which he no longer has with anyone, and partly because he's remembering that feeling of innocence, of playing checkers and holding hands .  It's so painful to remember that that he can't say  " I "  .  He has to take a step away from it .  He has to say that that happened to  " you "  .  IT'S FRACKING SAD, MAN !  Okay so last thing, Holden and the ladies .  Someone correct me if I'm wrong but I think this book is just a wee bit misogynistic .  Like the part where he talks about how once you get past second base girls lose their heads and can't control themselves .  Hmm .  .  .  that's a little troubling .   And also it sometimes feels like Holden's desire to protect people and to keep them innocent, is in some ways a way of kind of inhibiting the empowerment of women .  I think we should discuss that and everything else in this video and any other topics you found interesting in the first fifteen chapters over at the Ning where I have started an official  " let's talk about Holden Caulfield and the Catcher in the Rye "  thread .                 
Good Morning Hank it's Question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real nerdfighters, while sitting in a real airport . What is going on with the Nerdfighter event in Chicago on 8/8/08 ? The Harold Washington Library is going to try to accommodate everyone for the 2 pm event, but if for some reason you can't get in don't worry, there will be awesome available for you .   And then we will see you at four o'clock for the wizard rock concert in Grant Park, and then at 8:08 pm at the Bean where Amy Krouse Rosenthal is going to make awesome happen .  More info there or there and now, back to the airport . Overall do you think that the flashlight is a worthwhile invention ? Yeah, who is opposed to flashlights, moles ? Can you give you give me a lol books summary of a Jane Austen book ? Mah Famlee gotz klass,  But no Moneez, I can haz husband ? Do you and Hank have any other siblings ? Just me, and me and us . Do you get nervous when you talk in front of a large group of people ? Yeah extremely, actually when I look at video of myself speaking in front of large groups of people I always look a little bit like how I looked when I was in seventh grade and I attempted to fast dance .  Anyway I hope that everyone likes my new book Paper Towns . Why are you only charging $3 . 99 for the new paperback of An Abundance of Katherines ? Well first I feel like books are generally too expensive and second I would rather have readers than have money, and third I kind of think of it as a way of thanking you in advanced for all of the money I am about to ask you to spend on Paper Towns . How you keep so fresh ? Degree and thanks for noticing . What college did you attend ? Kenyon . High school ? Indian Springs School . Who would win in arm wrestling you or Hank ? I think that it is possible that we might both lose . I subscribed to this channel by mistake how do you unsubscribe, this sucks ! OK first you have to write a letter to the Nerdfighter council, then Hank does this laparoscopic operation were he goes in with a special tube and he sucks all of the awesome out of your body and replaces it with like blood and organs and stuff .   And then we have to hit you with a memory zapper so you permanently forget to be awesome . Are you and Hank the same person ? Yes we are both Mary Tyler Moore . Obscure B2 . 0 joke, obscure B2 . 0 joke . What do a race car and a kayak have in common ? They're both palindromes, riddle pwned ! What would your autobiography be called ?  " Does My Eye Look OK to You ?  The John Green Story "  Or else  " As the Puff Riseth, The John Green Story "  . When did you first realize that you were a total nerd ? Oh, people were perfectly happy to point it out to me pretty early on . How did you propose to the Yeti ? There is this writer that the Yeti really likes named Hendrik Hertzberg and I happened to meet him at a conference and so I asked him to sign a book for me and he signed it, 'To Sarah, will you marry John Green ?  I think it's a good idea .  Best Wishes, Hendrik Hertzberg . ' I mean maybe she could have said no to me but no one can say no to Hendrik Hertzberg . If you were a superhero, who would you be ? Probably Pants Power, the super hero with power pants created by my secret sister Debbie . How soon after you finish one book do you start on the next one ? Pretty much the next day, I'm always worried that if I wait any longer, I'll just stop . What's your favorite Hank song ? Probably Helen Hunt, although my dark horse pick would be I Sold Your Dog on eBay, because I just love how you can rock out to it and get kind of soulful, like we both know that we had bills to pay-ay-ay .  I promised you I would never sing again but I was lying . Do your parents watch you guys on YouTube ? No they are to busy watching Fred and Smosh, of course they watch us; they're our parents . Can I get a copy of the Green Green Manifesto ? Yes, I just posted it at the Ning . Will there be another Project for awesome ? Secret brother Tom didn't call it the first Annual Project for Awesome for nothing . Did Hank get better grades than you ? Yes . What does Hank actually do like for money ? Huh, good question I never really thought about it .  Maybe he like robs banks or something .  Can't you see Hank robbing banks ?  -  " Alright, I need all of you to get down on the ground, contemplate the size of your carbon footprints, and give me all your money, because Daddy needs some new corn dogs .  " What is your favorite thing to put on toast ? Bubbles the Nerdfighting Puppy . What was your college application essay about ? All I'm going to say is that my college application essay would literally have been better if I put a sea lion inside of a sealed room for a week with a typewriter .  Actually, aside from the complexity of acquiring and feeding a sea lion for a week, that is a great idea for a college application essay . Nerdfighters, I'm going to do another one of these next week, so please leave your questions in comments .  Hank, thanks for being awesome and I will see you on 8/8/08 .                 
Good Morning, Hank .  I'd like to talk about the Catcher In The Rye today, or else the amazing Nerdfighter gathering on 8-8-08, but you challenged me to discuss the political situation in Georgia while putting on a peanut butter face .   And so it shall be .  I got the generic stuff, because, you know, it's going on my face .   Everyone knows, Hank, the only way to make the Internet pay attention to news is via peanut butter face .  Okay, so Georgia's this small country just southwest of Russia that used to be part of the Soviet Union, but before it was part of the Soviet Union, it was an actual, like, honest-to-god democracy, from 1918 to 1921 .   And it was busy developing this very close relationship with Western Europe .  Oh, history !  Will you ever stop repeating yourself ?  Then, in 1921, the USSR invaded Russia  , mostly because Joseph Stalin, who was born in Georgia, was like,  " You know, in, like, twenty years I'm gonna wanna kill about 500,000 Georgians and that's gonna be way easier if we invade now .  "  So they did and Georgia became part of the USSR .   Okay, so flash-forward to 1991, the Soviet Union's breaking up and Georgia declares its independence, right ?  This is followed by your standard bloody coup, mini civil war, etc .  During that time, it turns out that the two provinces, South Ossetia and and Abkhazia, don't wanna be part of Georgia, they wanna be independent countries, presumably because the world does not contain enough Luxembourgs .   Now, Hank, I'm gonna face it that I'm in favor of Abkhazia having its independence, if only because its would-be national flag wants to give you a high-five .   But the history of the actual place of Abkhazia is significantly less awesome, for instance, in the early '90s they ethnically cleansed hundreds of thousands of Georgians .  South Ossetia, which by the way has a lame flag, is, as you might guess, just south of North Ossetia, which is part of Russia .  So basically the deal they end up making is that South Ossetia and Abkhazia will have a kind of semi-sovereignity to them, sort of like the Kurds had in Northern Iraq between the Iraq Wars .   And this goes reasonably well for a while until a few years ago when Mikheil  Saakashvili becomes the president of Georgia .  By the way, he has a fun name to say, Saakashvili .   It's delicious .   Right, so Saakashvili sees that the future of Georgia is really with Western Europe, so he's in favor of joining NATO and eventually he wants to be part of the EU .   And as we know from a couple of years ago in the Ukraine, when former Russian territories wanna become close to Western Europe, Russia can go a little bit bonkers .  Like, poisoning presidential candidates bonkers .  So that's the background for August 1st 2008, when someone, it's not clear who, threw an artillery shell at someone else .  That kind of stuff's been happening for a long time in South Ossetia, but this time it was different, because on the day that the opening ceremonies of the Olympics started, the Russian army decided to come to the aid of the South Ossetians and blow the crap out of Georgia .   I mean, not only did the Russian army enter South Ossetia, they also entered Abkhazia and then they ended up invading large parts of Georgia and bombing the capital .   And then, after a week of that, Russian President named-only-because-everyone-knows-that-Putin-runs-everything Dimitri Medvedev was like,  " Okay, that's enough, you've been punished, Georgia .  "   I mean, Hank, he literally used the Russian word for  " punished " , like Georgia is his naughty nephew .  So Medvedev has agreed to give up fighting, provided that Georgia give up both South Ossetia and Abkhazia .  Which in the end they're totally gonna have to do because everybody knows that neither Western Europe nor America will come to their military aid, which is pretty much Medvedev's point .  Putin and Medvedev don't particularly care about South Ossetia or Abkhazia, but they do care very much that Georgia is becoming closer and closer to the West .   And this war has been nothing more than Russia reminding Georgia that the West won't come to your aid and we can pwn you whenever we want .   Hank, it's not the place of a man who's covered in peanut butter to speak ill of others, but that's lame .  That's my basic problem with most wars: they're as stupid as they are evil .  Anyway, let's hope that Georgia continues its path to democracy and economic growth .  Mm .  Generic peanut butter i' good .   So, Hank, that's my armchair political analysis with peanut butter on my face .  I'll see you soon .    And now, Hank, I'm going to show you the happiest dog in the world .  Alright, Willy, you've got exactly five seconds, GO !  *laughs* One, two, three, four, five, that's it !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday, August 26th and, spoiler alert, we're finally going to talk about the second half of The Catcher in the Rye . Although, I don't know exactly what about the book could be spoiled, Hank .  I mean like, SPOILER, life is hard .   And sad . *Title Sequence*Hank, when I first decided I was going to make two videos about The Catcher in the Rye, I was thinking that the second video would be all about the tension between innocence and experience, and how that red hunting cap--which is the same color as his dead brother Allie's hair--is this kind-of security blanket for Holden that he holds onto .   And I was going to talk about the ducks in the pond in Central Park, and how nothing ever changes in the Natural History Museum, which is what Holden likes about it so much, and that heart-breakingly sad moment at the end with that carousel and the hat and Phoebe and everything .  But actually, now that I've reread the book, I don't wanna talk about any of that .  I wanna talk about what I think is the real purpose of symbolism and metaphor, and all the tricks that authors use to try to make you believe in stories in a deeper way . There's this sociologist I like named Peter Berger, and he wrote in one of his books,  " The difference between dogs and people is that dogs know how to be dogs .  "   And it seems to me that one of the ways we don't come into this world knowing how to be a person is that we don't really know what to do about empathy . Like, the weird thing about self-consciousness is that you become aware of the fact that you can never fully feel someone else's pain, and that someone else can never fully feel your pain . I mean, the same goes for joy, but since we're talking about Holden Caulfield, we got to focus narrowly in on the pain . Now Hank, the fact that empathy is a limited human talent is a good thing, because our brains are too small and too primitive to function if we're feeling everyone's pain and everyone's joy and everyone's excitement and everyone's loneliness and everyone's boredom ALL at the same time . The question is: how do we get to a place where we can empathize with each other enough to take care of each other enough to get through this veil-o-tears .  And this is where the fact that there are two Holdens in this story comes into play; there's the Holden who the story is happening to, and there's the Holden that is telling us about it . The Holden who the story is happening to is almost a total failure at getting people to listen to him .  Like, basically in the second half of the book, what does he do ?  It's the same thing he did in the first half: he walks around, meets some people and tries to get some people to listen to him, and they refuse .   And then towards the end you think that there's this adult who is actually finally going to listen to him, and then Holden wakes up and the guy is patting his head and it's totally creepy and hugely sad .  And if that's your only Holden, I have to say I don't see a lot of hope in this novel .  What I see in the Holden who the book is happening to is a kid who's alone, and afraid, and scared, and who no one hears, and who no one ever bothers to listen to . Now, you can blame this on the people that Holden reaches out to, or you can blame it on Holden himself, but the fact of the matter is it's no one's fault because it's not our fault that empathy is inherently limited . Everyone in the book, including Holden, is self-involved, but they're self-involved because that is the nature of being a person . So if you only think about the Holden the story is happening to, it's pretty crap depressing . Crap is the new darn ?  Apparently . It's when I think about the other Holden that I get hopeful, Hank .  Because a year later he's writing a story about the person he was, and the way he writes the story makes us care .  NOW we are able to listen to him, NOW we are able to empathize .  That's the miracle of text I would argue, but it's also the miracle of non-literal communication .  The hunting hat, the movies, the carousel, that's his way into us .  That's how he gets inside of us and makes us care, makes us believe in him, makes us realize that he is a person in the same way that we are . So ultimately Hank, that's my answer to people who say that  " all that English class stuff "  ruins books .  All that  " English stuff "  is Holden's way into us, and our way out of ourselves .  Hank, I'll see you soon . Hey Willie, tell the Nerdfighters their next clue .  Tell them that their next clue is taped to a sign in Daniel Biss's front yard .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Friday, August 29th, and since I know you don't like to watch the news, I am now going to tell you everything that I think you need to know about presumptuous Republican Vice Presidential nominee, Sarah Palin . Palin ?  I don't even know how to say her name I'm so surprised .  Part 1: Sarah Palin is the 44-year-old governor of the great state of Alaska .  She's been the governor of Alaska for just under two years .  Before that, she was the head of the city council in Wasilla, Alaska; a town name I might be mispronouncing even though I've been there several times . Number 2: on all of the social issues that are important to the Republican base she is reliably conservative .  She's strongly pro-life, anti-gay marriage, and a life-long member of the National Rifle Association .  In fact, she is a moose hunter .   Number 3: in what might be the most politically corrupt state in the U . S . , she has a reputation for being strongly anti-corruption .  Hank, I briefly lived in Alaska and let me tell you from experience: Alaska has about as many uncorrupt politicians as it has pleasant winter days .  So that's certainly a vote in her favor . Another vote in her favor would be Thing 4: she's married to a commercial fisherman .  Now, Hank, I wasn't able to find any pictures of Sarah Palin's husband on the internet but I'm hoping that he looks like the sailor from The Simpsons . Thing 5: she has a kid named Track, that's a political liability, who's joined the Army and going to Iraq, that's a political asset .  It's like McCain was saying,  " Joe Biden, I'll see your son who's going to Iraq and I raise you an Alaskan infantryman named Track .  " Oh, also, I forgot to mention Sarah Palin's husband is a semiprofessional Snowmobiler .  Really, he races snowmobiles . Thing 6: she has absolutely no foreign policy experience .  Now of course, the McCain camp's going to say that it doesn't matter that she doesn't have foreign policy experience because McCain has loads of foreign policy experience, which is fine, just so long as McCain is, you know, alive .  Which I thought is kind of why you picked a Vice President, but anyway . Thing 7: She's been a very Alaska-centric governor .  You know there are some governors like, say, Kathleen Sibelius or Rod Blagojevich, who end up leading on certain national issues ?  She hasn't been like that .  She's all Alaska, all the time .  I mean, you could argue that her energy policy has been influential outside of Alaska in some ways but I'm not convinced .  Although she is very popular in Alaska . Nerdfighters, particularly Republican nerdfighters, I'm interested to hear what you think about the Palin Pick .  Let me know in comments . Hank, don't forget to be awesome and, as always, best wishes !                 
Good morning, Hank, I'd like to extend a warm greeting to the nearly two thousand subscribers who have joined us since the Sarah Palin video .  Hello new viewers, my name is John, Hank is my brother, and this is my puff .    So Hank, today I am going to announce everywhere that I, and sometimes you, am/are going to be on tour for my new book Paper Towns .  To help me make that very special announcement, I've brought two friends !  Gaahhh !  It's the finished copies of Paper Towns !  Hello there, Happy Margo .  Hello there, Sad Margo .  Hank, I feel like I'm in a Margo sandwich, like they're gonna crowd me out .  I wrote you !  Don't cover me up !  I refuse to be silenced !  So yeah, these are the first two finished copies of Paper Towns .  Hank, a lot of people have been asking why paper towns has two covers .  Like, the book inside is the same there are two different covers .  That's an extremely good question and I'll answer it .  .  .  in my next video, which is gonna be all me answering questions about Paper Towns and the tour .   But in the meantime, I've been wanting to do an extremely unscientific study .  I'm hoping you'll help me out by telling me in comments which of these two covers you prefer .  By the way, just FYI, the back is exact same for both books, it's a gigantic blown up picture of me in Amsterdam .  Wearing mismatching argyle socks .  I knew I should've worn matching socks that day .  Alright Hank, it's time for me and my helmet-head to announce the tour dates .  Nerdfighters, I sure hope you can come to one or more event, because otherwise it will be lonely .  Oh, but first, on Monday, September 8th, I'm gonna be in Columbus, Ohio, that even is gonna be awesome, more info in the sidebar .  Okay, I'm gonna announce the official Paper Towns tour dates with Blue Margo, and then Shiny Yellow Margo and I will tell you the Tour de Nerdfighting dates that we've booked so far .  On October 16th, the day that Paper Towns comes out, there's going to be an amazing launch party in New York City with Hank and my parents, and the Yeti, and Secret Sister Maureen, and lots of other authors, and songs about Looking for Alaska, and ukelelic sensation Julia Nunes .  .  .  !  ?  That sounds like a rumor .  You know, Blue Margo is probably just saying that to try to get people excited .  Hank, right now like, 1/3 of nerdfighters are saying 'Who is Julia Nunes ? ' As Mr .  T so memorably put it, I pity da third .  October 17th, Boston, with the Boston-area nerdfighters, A .  K .  A .  the BANFS .  On October 18th, my adopted home town of Indianapolis, Indiana .  On October 20th, I'm gonna back in Columbus because like noted evil lady baby Queen Isabella used to say, 'I can't get enough Columbus ! ' Anybody for obscure jokes about rumored romantic affairs in 15th century Europe ?  No ?  You sure ?  No ?  Okay, let's move on .  October 21st, Atlanta, Georgia .  October 22nd, Miami .  October 23rd, Orlando, Florida, where much of Paper Towns is set .  October 24th, I'll be in the suburbs of Chicago, on October 25th, I'll be in the city of Chicago .  The 27th, I head down to Phoenix, Arizona .  The 28th, Seattle, Washington .  The 29th, San Francisco, California, and then on the 30th, nerdfighter Halloween party in Los Angeles .  Then I take a couple days off, catch my breath, and then Hank, and the Katherine, and occasionally the Yeti and myself hit the road for the Great American Tour de Nerdfighting 2008 !  November 2nd, Plano, Texas .  Later on November 2nd, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma   November 3rd, St .  Louis .  November 4th, Election Day Spectacular in Greenwood, Indiana .  November 5th, we're gonna be in Louisville, then on November 9th we're gonna be in Virginia Beach, Virginia .  On November 10th, we're gonna be in Charlottesville .  On the 11th, we're gonna be in Lancaster, Pennsylvania .  Tell 'em where we're gonna be on the 12th, Margo .  [Margo] : West Port, Connecticut !  [John] : Margo, I don't wanna criticize here, but you have a terrible voice for vlogging .  November 13th, Pittsburgh, the 14th Ann Arbor, Michigan and the 16th, Ames, Iowa .  I mean, if you live in Iowa and you're not in Ames on the 16th .  .  .  I don't even think think we can be friends anymore .  So nerdfighters, which tour stop, or stops, are you coming to ?  Hank, I'm looking forward to spending three weeks in a car with you in November, I'm sure it won't hurt our relationship .  Yellow Margo says, 'Best Wishes ! ' I can't see anything .  I can't even .  .  .  there it is .                 
Okay, Hank, I'm about to play the song for Willy .  Let's see how it goes .   .  .  .  Well my brother got this new dog  And you really can't ignore How cute he gets when he hears a sound he's never heard before First he looks confused,  And then a little wary, Then he knocks his head to the side, like it's Night at the Roxbury  .  .  .  Well John got scared that there were no new sounds to hear So he called on the Nerdfighters to act really weird .  People of the world, you might think that this is silly,    But it doesn't matter what you think, cause this song is for Willy .   .  .  .     .  .  .  Yeah this song is for Willy  .  .  .  Oh, now he can relax .  Look at him, he just yawned, he was like .  .  .  Oh, it's not over Willy .  Hey Willy, there's gonna be more .  He just almost did the Exorcist thing for God's sake .  I thought his head was gonna spin around his neck !  I mean, Hank, you just made Willy and me and the Yeti so happy !  Thanks .  Somebody didn't FTBA .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Thursday, September 11th, and I can think of no better day to think about ways we can make the world suck less .  So here's a video about videos .   Video number 1, Shawn's collaboration with Save the Children in Bangladesh .  Hank, this video is a video response to a video make by Shawn, who as I'm sure you remember is a Nerdfighter who lives in Bangladesh and works full-time to help decrease world suck among the world's poorest kids .  A few months ago a bunch of Nerdfighters came together to send Shawn some money to help people in Bangladesh .  He's already used a lot of that money in made-of-awesome ways but now he wants to use the rest of it working with Save the Children to do something awesome .   But here's the problem that Shawn faces, and indeed the same problem that lots of charities face when they're working in the developing world: there is just not enough money to do everything that needs to be done .  So you end up having to choose: do I do vitally important thing A or vitally important thing B ?  What matters most, clean water, the health of infants, education ?  It's a very difficult calculus .  So what Shawn has done is he's given us an introduction to a variety of different things that we can do .   And this time, everybody has a voice in that conversation .  We can go and vote on what we think is the most important thing, the thing that should be done first with our money, and then Shawn will do it .  Now of course I know a lot of you are saying, why don't we just send Shawn more money so he can do everything ?  I'm all in favor of sending Shawn more money, but that still won't solve the problem .  I think it's a profoundly difficult and complex question and we shouldn't try to get out of it just by sending more money .  Instead, we should all have to make some of the tough choices that Shawn makes every day .   Video two .  Hank, at the tail end of our amazing night in Chicago with many, many Nerdfighters on 8-8-08, we met Amy Krause Rosenthal at the Bean .  Amy Krause Rosenthal of course being the author of many critically acclaimed and best-selling books including Encyclopedia of an Ordinary Life and Little Pea in Your Pants .  What I love so much about Little Pea in Your Pants is that first you think,  " God, that would be a disaster, "  and then you think,  " Although, if I'm going to have an amount of pee in my pants other than none .  .  .  "  So we all went and met Amy Krause Rosenthal at the Bean, hundreds of us, and we had no idea what she was planning .  All we knew was that she had a yellow umbrella .  Well it turns out she was planning to make a movie and that movie stars a ton of Nerdfighters, including me !   And the movie she made is only the first part of the project .  The movie is called The Beckoning of Lovely and now that lovely has been beckoned we can all go make and do lovely things and send them to Amy for her to make and do something really lovely .  I'm very excited about this .  It's the kind of thing that's right up my alley .  More info about it in the sidebar .   Video three: wynflete .  You know Hank, sometimes the world can seem like it's not a very good place to be, and like the human experiment maybe isn't worth it, and gosh I wish that particle accelerator would just create a black hole and get it over with ?   But our biological impulses aside, I think there's something sort of beautiful about bringing someone into the world and promising to take care of them and to make the Earth as good a place as you can for them .  Our secret siblings Debbie and Stu have just done that .  They made me a funny birthday video in which they also introduced their new kid .  .  .  Eli .  A link to that video is also in the sidebar .  I thought it might be helpful if we all went over and said,  " Hello Eli, welcome to the world !  We're gonna do everything we can to make it suck as little as possible for you .  "   Videos 4 and 5, an extended Question Tuesday I did with Worthington Libraries .  I guess it doesn't really decrease world suck that much except that libraries are awesome but I did like twenty minutes worth of Question Tuesday with the Worthington Libraries .  The questions were awesome .  It has everything that you would ever want to know about me and my books and more .  Arguably much more .   Hank, Willy is whining behind me which means I have to go take him out .  I will make a video about the tour on Saturday and I'll see you soon .                 
Good Morning Hank, it's Sunday .  It's riddle Sunday .  The day that I answer real riddles from real nerdfighters .  Okay Hank, let's get started .  What gets wet while drying ?  A towel .  What fastens two people, yet touches only one ?  A wedding ring .  Who's 5'6 "  and a half, has a name that anagrams to I PWN HARRY FO and has fewer subscribers than the Vlogbrothers ?  Hmmm .  .  .  PARRY FOIN HW ?  FRAN WOIHPRY ?  HARPO .  .  .  Wait a second .  You-you don't mean ?  YES .  No, not really .  Really .  Okay, really ?  Do you mean it ?  I'm getting very excited .  Um, okay I'm gonna go to YouTube here on my trusty MacBook Pro .  I'm pulling up YouTube and, uh, going to Most Subscribed Directors .  I'm seeing that the Vlogbrothers have 41,818 subscribers and Oprah has 41,365 .  Now Hank, I'm not an expert at pwning, but that would seem to indicate, that at least according to YouTube, we have pwn'd Oprah !  HUUUUUUUHHHH !  Oh my gosh .  I am getting very excited .  Uh, but you know, um, I have been wrong about mathematics before .  Remember that time that I thought there were a hundred seconds in a minute ?  Uh, I am definitely going to confirm this .  I'm going to get some confirmation on this .  Okay Hank, I am now calling Brotherhood 2 . 0 resident mathematician Daniel Biss .  DB: Hey .  JG: Hi, it's John Green .  Do you have a minute ?  DB: I have a minute .  JG: Okay .  Your name is Daniel Biss .  DB: My name is Daniel Biss .  JG: You are a professional mathematician .  DB: This is correct .  JG: Okay .  You got your PhD from MIT, is that correct ?  DB: That is correct .  JG: Okay, in your professional opinion, as a trained mathematician, is the number 41,818 larger than the number 41,365 ?  DB: Yes .  JG: YES !  YES !  From a mathematician !  YEAH !    WOOHOO !  YES !  Even Willy's excited !  I know Willy, there's a lot to be excited about .  We pwnd Oprah .  We pwnd Oprah .  I've got to call her Hank .  JG: Hi, this is John Green of the Vlogbrothers .  Um, we just pwn'd Oprah .  I'm not sure if she's aware of it, so I was calling to make sure that she knew .  Uh, I figure that she'll want to call me back, on account of how she was pwn'd .  Um, BUT, you know, I don't feel totally comfortable with giving Oprah my phone number .  Because, you know, I generally like to reserve my cell phone number for people who I have not yet pwn'd .  Um, so if you could, just have her call me back through my agent, Jodi Reamer at Writer's House .  Thanks very much, and as always, best wishes !  Hank, it's that rare occasion where puff levels are caused by unadulterated joy .  Hank, I can only say that it is a testament to the awesomeness of Nerdfighteria and a testament to the awesomeness of you that we have pwn'd Oprah on the Most Subscribed List !  This means as previously agreed that the nerdfighters get to punish us !  Nerdfighters leave your punishment suggestions in comments !  I'm so excited about pwning Oprah that I've gotten sweaty and now my glasses are gonna fall off my face .   But Hank, you are awesome .  .  .  I almost said I love you, but then I held myself back .  I'll see you soon !  P .  S .  Nerdfighters- the details of Paper Towns tour dates are starting to be posted on Eventful . com !  Link in the sidebar .    Or more likely link in the sidebar .    I still can't do it !                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday, September 23rd, which means that  " Paper Towns "  comes out in 22 days .  Oh my God .  Ho boy, Hank, I am seriously stressing .  The only way to get the puff under control, frankly, was to get a haircut .   And even that can't keep it fully under control .  The puff is like a wild heart, Hank .  It cannot be broken .  But just because I'm stressed out, doesn't mean that it's not Tuesday .  Question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real nerdfighters !  " When does 'Paper Towns' come out ?  " October 16th, have I not said that enough ?  Oh my God, I haven't said that enough .  October 16th, October 16th, October 16th, October 16th .   And you say Hank talks faster than I do .  " Why aren't you coming to Dallas, Washington D . C . , Tuscon Arizona, Tempe New Mexico ?  " Okay, first off, Tempe is not in New Mexico .  If you want us to come to your hometown, you need to tell us the correct state it's in . Second off, over the course of the next 5-6 weeks I promise you that I am going to every place I possibly can .   But nerdfighters, sometimes you've gotta meet us halfway .  Don't ask,  " Why aren't you coming to Washington, D . C .  ? , "  ask  " What can I do to get to Charlottesville, Virginia ?  "  Don't ask,  " Why aren't you going to Tempe, New Mexico ?  "  Ask yourself,  " Do I live in Tempe or do I live in New Mexico ?  "   And then, based on the information you've acquired, find out the nearest spot on the tour and come to it . Also, bring your friends .  Unless you're too much of a nerdfighter to have friends in real life, in which case, bring your bullies .  " Are you gonna be doing any events before your tour starts ?  " Yes, and thank you for asking . This Friday and Saturday I'm going to be in the Twin Cities of Minnesota and then on October 1st I'm going to be doing a public event in Berlin .   And not like Berlin, New Mexico but like Berlin, Germany .  Details in the sidebar . Also there are several new events in the Tour de Nerdfighting .  You can find out all the details as they come in at nerdfighters . com, but I will tell you the names of the cities that we are definitely going to and this is it:New York, Boston, Indianapolis, Columbus, Atlanta, Orlando, Miami, Naperville, Chicago, Phoenix, Seattle, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Plano, Oklahoma City, Saint Louis, Indianapolis, Louisville, Knoxville, Gaston, Newport, New Charlottesville, Lancaster, Westport, Pittsburgh, Ann Arbor, Racine, Ames, Kansas City, and the Twin Cities . So Hank, that's how fast I can talk .  I know Frezned can talk faster but can you ?  " Are these events free and open to the public ?  " Yes, entirely .  " Do we need tickets ?  " No, except in a couple of instances .  You should RSVP to the event in Boston .  Phone number in the sidebar . By the way, Julia Nunes will not be at the event in New York, but she will be at the event in Boston . Hank, I've decided that the official tagline for that show is  " Oh yes, there will be Nunes .  "  " Do you know the girl on the cover of 'Paper Towns ? ' " No, not personally, but I did help pick her out .  Her name is Dana, she's Canadian, and she's awesome .  " Have you picked a punishment yet ?  " Hank, we don't get to pick punishments .  Nerdfighters do . It seems like the two most popular options for punishments are 1 .  do Brotherhood 2 . 0-style vlogging for one month   or 2 .  dress up like a Peep for Halloween and hand out Peeps on the street .  Nerdfighters, you can vote for your favorite punishments in comments .  " If I order the book online, which color will I get ?  " You will get random color, which is arguably the best color of all, because the basic idea of the cover design is that each cover represents a misimagining of the person involved .   And since both covers are fundamentally wrong, neither can be superior .  " I can't come to your show because I'll be in school and/or it's a school night .  " Now those aren't technically questions but I'm still happy to answer them .  I didn't schedule any of the events for during school because then no one would have come .   And I know that many of the events are on a school night, but I'm sure that you'll be able to tell your parents that since it's, you know, book-related, you should totally be allowed to come .   And if you can't convince them, just have them e-mail me, and I'll convince them .  " Will we finally get to see the Yeti ?  " Yes, the Yeti will be at many of the events .  Unless, of course, I've been making her up all this time . Hank, DFTBA .  Nerdfighters, hope to see a lot of you in Minneapolis on Friday and Saturday and some of you in Berlin on October 1st and John, uh, don't stress out so much everything's gonna be fine .  Also, stop talking to yourself, it's weird . Oh P . S . , from Blue John, nerdfighters who are attending events in Minneapolis, there will be a pretty amazing surprise there .                 
Good morning Hank .  It's Wednesday, October 8th and I'm gonna start the day off with some Shakespeare insult gum .  This one's from  " The Merchant of Venice "    .  .  . mmm .  .  .  " Beg that thou may have leave to hang thyself .  "    Hank this is only my second video in our month-long Brotherhood 2 . 1 project but already I don't have anything to talk about .  So I didn't have any ideas about what to vlog about today but then I was YouTube searching  " Paper Towns "  because, you know, I'm a gigantic narcissist .   And it turns out that there are several groups of made-of-awesome nerdfighters around the country who are inserting little notes into my books in bookstores, telling potential readers to come to the  " Paper Towns "  and nerdfighter gatherings .  That's just a fantastic idea and, so, like all fantastic ideas I come across, I'm gonna steal it .  What can I do, Hank ?  Writers are thieves .  Hank, in stealing this idea, I don't want to create any unnecessary new paper, so I'm just gonna cut up a couple pages from the  " Paper Towns "  manuscript .  Including of course the world-famous page 308 which is blank and therefore the only incontestably perfect page in the whole novel .  So I'm just gonna   .  .  . cut these into quarters   .  Then I'm gonna use  " The Collected Poems of Federico Garcia Lorca "  as a little thing to write on .   : Meet the author of this book here on October 18th .  P .  S .  You may be something called a nerdfighter .  P .  P .  S .  Do not be alarmed .  It is a good thing .  Best wishes !  J .  Scribble .    Ah yes, Hank, here we are nestled between Old Navy and Bed Bath & Beyond, there's Borders .  Okay Hank so I have here all of my, uh, cards that I have written on and I am now going to attempt to insert them inside my books at that Borders .  I'll try to film it but I also don't wanna get arrested at the very store that I will be signing at in ten days .  Because I'm a little worried that they're gonna be like,  " Hey, what's the old man with the big hair doing in the young adult section of the bookstore with a video camera ?  "    Hank, look at this, how awesome is that   .  It's not gonna be any problem whatsoever--oh !  Look what they have for sale .  .  .     Alright, Hank, done and done, thanks to everyone at Borders for being so nice about me using my video camera .  I'd like to thank all the nerdfighters who gave me that idea and, if anyone else wants to do it, it's surprisingly easy .  Hank, thanks for being awesome, I'll see ya tomorrow .  Nerdfighters, I'm gonna do a Question Tuesday on Friday because that's how I roll, please leave your questions in comments .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Friday, October 10th, and I'm coming to you today from a hotel room with two bathrooms .  No joke, here's bathroom one and here's bathroom two with its bathtub the size of a swimming pool .  I mean, seriously, Hank, I can hide inside of it   Oh, ow, ugh god the injuries I incur from vlogging .    . So, Hank, I am coming to you today from the iSight camera because I left my camera charger at home .  Hank, just because I'm on the iSight camera does not mean that it is not Question Friday, the day that I answer real questions from real nerdfighters .  Okay, Hank, let's get to it . Question one,  " How long can you go without mentioning your new book, Paper Towns, which comes out in six days and makes a great present for the holidays ?  "  I don't know, let's time me and we'll find out .  " Will Paper Towns be out in Canada at the same time as it will be in the United States ?  "  That doesn't count, I didn't bring it up, I just repeated a nerdfighter's question .   And yes .  " Do you think deconstructionism as a part of literary criticism takes something away from the author ?  "  Maybe, but authors don't own books, readers do .  " Do you play any musical instruments ?  "  Sometimes I play a little upside-down hotel trashcan .    .  Ha, I don't have a lot of aptitude for the upside-down hotel trashcan, but I do love to play .  " Is Bubbles the Nerdfighting Puppy neutered ?  "  Yes, for the first several months of his life, every time he peed inside, I was like, Willy, if you do that one more time, I am going to chop your balls off, and then I did it .  " If some blibs are blobs and some blobs are bleebs, then are some blibs definitely bleebs ?  "  Okay let me rephrase your question, if some nerdfighters make riddles and if some riddle makers are Minotaur's, then are some nerdfighters definitely Minotaur's ?  Hmm, yes, I guess so .  " Are you an octopus ?  "  Hmm,   one, two, three four, no .  Wait, wait, wait, I could be an octopus who had had four legs chopped off .  If I were an octopus with four legs chopped off, how would we be able to tell ?  If I jumped against the wall, I would stick .    I am not an octopus .  " We know that 'Joe Biden' anagrams to 'I need job' but does 'Sarah Palin' anagram to anything interesting ?  "  No joke, 'Sarah Palin' anagrams to 'Las Piranha' .  " How did you get your to be so incredibly awesome ?  "  Is not a question I received very often in middle school .  " What's gonna happen at these nerdfighter gatherings ?  "  Songs will be sung, Paper Towns will be read .  Okay, that's it, that's as long as I can go without mentioning Paper Towns .  I mean, my God, it comes out in six days, it's the culmination of two and a half years of my life .    huh huh, Paper Towns, Paper Towns, Paper Towns, Paper Towns, Paper Towns, Six days, six days, six days, Paper Towns, next Thursday, Paper Towns .   But anyway, yes, songs will be sung, Paper Towns will be read, book will be discussed, questions will be answered, stuff will be signed, happy dances will be happily danced .  " How do you feel about Paper Towns being sold early in some places ?  "  I mean, I'm not thrilled about it, but there's also nothing I can do about it .  It's like this spot on my shirt .  " How come you never answer my questions ?  "  Actually, by virtue of answering your question I have rendered your question unanswerable .  " Why is Y only sometimes a vowel ?  "  Because if it were always a vowel, there would be no Yeti and I would be alone in the world .  Oh my God, thank you, thank you, consonant Y .  " Will you sign books other than Paper Towns while you are on tour ?  "  Yeah, absolutely, I'll sign anything other than skin, I have a strict no skin signing policy . Okay Hank I will see you on the internet on Monday and in real life at the Paper Towns release party on Thursday                
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday, October 14th . Well the Nerdfighters have voted about whether or not you should be punished for putting up your video slightly late yesterday and the consensus seems to be no .   But Hank, you seem to have forgotten one small detail: it's not up to the Nerdfighters to decide whether or not you get you get punished for breaking the rules .  It's up to me !   And I agree with them .  You're a good brother and you shouldn't be punished .  Oh hi there, Margo, I didn't think you'd be making an appearance in today's video !  Margo, sometimes when we're this close together I feel like you might try to kiss me and that'd be weird 'cause the Yeti .  .  .  and the age difference .  .  .  and the fact that you're a fictional character that I created .  So, I'm just gonna tell you right now: it's not going to work between us .  So Hank I think for the next couple videos I'm gonna read from my new book Paper Towns which comes out on Thursday .  I'm gonna start by reading the prologue which some Nerdfighters will remember I read several months ago but it was very different then so maybe it'll be an insight into the World of Revision .  Oh and I'm totally gonna go over four minutes by using a montage . Okay so Paper Towns starts out with two epigraphs .  One of which is from a poem written by a Nerdfighter, Katrina Vandenburg .   And then we turn a couple pages and the Prologue:The way I figure it, everyone gets a miracle .  Like, I'll probably never be struck by lightning or win a Nobel Prize, or become a dictator of a small nation in the Pacific Islands or contract terminal ear cancer or spontaneously combust; but if you consider all the unlikely things together, at least one of them will probably happen to each of us .  I could've seen it rain frogs .  I could've set foot on Mars .  I could've been eaten by a whale .  I could've married the Queen of England or survived months at sea .   But my miracle was different .  My miracle was this .  Out of all the houses in all the subdivisions in all of Florida, I ended up living next door to Margo Roth Spiegleman .  " Our subdivision Jefferson Park used to be a Navy base .   But then the Navy didn't need it anymore, so it returned the land to the citizens of Orlando, Florida, who decided to build a massive subdivision .  Because that's what Florida does with land .  My parents and Margo's parents ended up moving next door to one another just after the first houses were built .  Margo and I were two .  " Before Jefferson Park was a Pleasantville, and before it was a navy base, it belonged to an actual Jefferson, this guy Dr .  Jefferson Jefferson .  Dr .  Jefferson Jefferson has a school named after him in Orlando and also a large charitable foundation, but the fascinating and unbelievable-but-true thing about Dr .  Jefferson Jefferson is that he was not a doctor of any kind .  He was just an orange juice salesman named Jefferson Jefferson .  When he became rich and powerful, he went to court, made  " Jefferson "  his middle name, and then changed his first name to  " Dr .  "  Capital D .  Lowercase r .  Period .  " So Margo and I were nine .  Our parents were friends, so we would sometimes play together, biking past the cul-de-sacced streets to Jefferson Park itself, the hub of our subdivision's wheel . I always got very nervous whenever I heard that Margo was about to show up, on account of how she was the most fantastically gorgeous creature that God had ever created .  On the morning in question, she wore white shorts and a pink T-shirt that featured a green dragon breathing a fire of orange glitter .  It is difficult to explain how awesome I found this T-shirt at the time . Margo, as always, biked standing up, her arms locked as she leaned above the handlebars, her purple sneakers a circuitous blur .  It was a steam-hot day in March .  The sky was clear, but the air tasted acidic, like it might storm later . At the time, I fancied myself an inventor, and after we locked up our bikes and began the shot walk across the park to the playground, I told Margo about an idea I had for an invention called the Ringolator .  The Ringolator was a gigantic cannon that would shoot big, colored rocks into a very low orbit, giving Earth the same sort of rings that Saturn has .   I'd been in this park so many times before that it was mapped in my mind, so we were only a few steps inside when I began to sense that the world was out of order, even though I couldn't immediately figure out *what* was different .  " Quentin, "  Margo said quietly, calmly . She was pointing .   And then I realized what was different . He was encircled by blood; a half-dried fountain of it poured out of his mouth .  The mouth open in a way that mouths generally shouldn't be, Flies at rest on his pale forehead .  " He's dead, "  Margo said, as if I couldn't tell . I took two small steps backward .  I remember thinking that if I made an sudden movements, he might wake up and attack me .  Maybe he was a zombie .  I knew zombies were'nt real, but he sure *looked* like a potential zombie . As I took those two steps back, Margo took two equally small and quiet steps forward .   " His eyes are open, "  she said .  " Wegottagohome, "  I said .  " I thought you closed your eyes when you died, "  she said .  " Margowegottagohomeandtell .  " She took another step .  She was close enough now to reach out and touch his foot .   " What do you think happened to him ?  "  she asked .   " Maybe it was drugs or something .  "  " I didn't want to leave Margo alone with the dead guy who might be an attack zombie, but I also didn't care to stand around and chat about the circumstances of his demise .  I gathered my courage and stepped forward to take her hand .   " Margowegottagoright !  "  " Okay, yeah, "  she said .  We ran to our bikes, my stomach churning with something that felt exactly like excitement, but wasn't .  We got on our bikes and I let her go in front of me because I was crying and didn't want her to see .  I could see blood on the soles of her purple sneakers .  His blood .  The dead guy blood .  And then we were back home in our separate houses .  My parents called 911, and I heard the sirens in the distance and asked to see the fire trucks, but my mom said no .  Then I took a nap .  " Both my parents are therapists, which means that I am really goddamned well adjusted .  So when I woke up, I had a long conversation with my mom about the cycle of life, and how death is a part of life, but not a part of life I needed to be particularly concerned about at the age of nine, and I felt better .  Honestly, I never worried about it much .  Which is saying something, because I can do some worrying .  " Here's the thing: I found a dead guy .  Little, adorable nine-year-old me and my even littler and more adorable play date found a guy with blood pouring out of his mouth, and that blood on her little, adorable sneakers as we biked home .  It's all very dramatic and everything, but so what ?  I didn't know the guy .  People I don't know die all the damned time .  If I had a nervous breakdown every time something awful happened in the world, I'd be crazier than a shithouse rat .  " That night, I went into my room at nine o'clock to go to bed because nine o'clock was my bedtime .  My mom tucked me in, told me she loved me, and I said,  " See you tomorrow, "  and she said,  " See you tomorrow, "  and then she turned out the lights and closed the door almost-all-the-way . As I turned on my side, I saw Margo Roth Spiegelman standing outside my window, her face almost pressed against the screen .  I got up and opened the window, but the screen stayed between us, pixelating her .  " I did an investigation, "  she said quite seriously .  Even up close the screen broke her face apart, but I could tell that she was holding a little notebook and a pencil with teeth marks around the eraser .  She glanced down at her notes .   " Mrs .  Feldman from over on Jefferson Court said his name was Robert Joyner .  She told me he lived on Jefferson Road in one of those condos on top of the grocery store, so I went over there and there were a bunch of policemen, and one of them asked if I worked at the school paper, and I said our school didn't have a paper, and he said as long as I wasn't a journalist he would answer my questions .  He said Robert Joyner was thirty-six years old .  A lawyer .  they wouldn't let me in the apartment, but a lady named Juanita Alvarez lives next door to him, and I got into her apartment by asking if I could borrow a cup of sugar, and then she said that Robert Joyner had killed himself with a gun .   And then I asked why, and then she told me that he was getting a divorce and was sad about it .  " She stopped then, and I just looked at her, her face gray and moonlit and split into a thousand little pieces by the weave of the window screen .  Her wide, round eyes flitted back and forth from her notebook to me .   " Lots of people get divorces and don't kill themselves, "  I said .  " I *know*, "  she said, excitement in her voice .   " *That's* what I told Juanita Alvarez .   And then said .  .  .  "  Margo flipped the notebook page .   " She said that Mr .  Joyner was troubled .   And then I asked what that meant, and then he told me that we should just pray for him and that I needed to take the sugar to my mom, and I said forget the sugar and left .  "                 
Good Morning Hank, it's Monday October 20th .  Welcome to my inexplicably yellow life .  *Intro* Hank, I'm gonna level with you .  I'm in Columbus, Ohio, I'm super tired after a long day of touring, I left my camcorder in Boston, so I've gotta record this vlog on the iSight camera till I get a new camcorder, and I'm wearing a sticker, I don't even know what side, muhpuhdebugubejum, wearin' a sticker that says  " My heart belongs to Edward, "  which is not accurate .   But I do have four important pieces of information to deliver to you .  Piece of information number one: Hank, you are awesome .  I know you're awesome because I just spent the two most awesome days with you of my life, in New York and Boston .  It was, in fact, so awesome that while I was in Boston, watching Julia Nunes play, my camcorder that I've filmed every single video I've made with since January 2nd, 2007, blew up due to a nuclear chain reaction of awesome .  Okay, it didn't blow up, I just left it at the event space .  By the way, Nerdfighters, if anybody happened to pick up a camera that looks like it was, you know, the one I've been using for the last 22 months, mmm email me   .  Link in the sidebar ?  Gah !  Link in the sidebar .  Piece of information number two: Hank, I was just in Columbus, Ohio, later this week I'm gonna be in Atlanta, Georgia .  That show starts at 6:00, not 6:30, and honestly you should probably come early if you can .  Then Miami, then Orlando, then Naperville .  Everyone should come to the event in Naperville; it's gonna be big, it's gonna be fun, it's gonna be jokes, it's gonna be awesome .  I'm also doing an event on Saturday at 4:00 pm at the Bookseller in Lincoln Square in Chicago; that event is going to be much smaller and much faster and, to be totally honest, probably not quite as nerdtastic .   But if you want a ticket, I'll give them to the first 45 people who email sparksflyup@gmail . com .  Thing number three: Hank, because I spend so much of my time in airports and on the road, people often ask me,  " John, do you have any travel tips ?  "  Yes, I do !  Never underestimate the value of Purell .  I mean, Hank, I have become an absolute Purell addict .  I'm not even content to rub it on my hands anymore, I've gotta get it, ahh, I gotta get it on my face, augh !  Aw, it's a burn, but it's a good burn, it's a good burn .  Also remember to travel with your nerdfighting wallet .   And most importantly, never check luggage .  Now I know what you're saying, Hank .   "  But I have to check luggage !  "  No you don't .  Hank, I'm not gonna be home for 33 days .   And that is all my luggage for the entire trip   .  How do I do it ?  Simple .  By wearing dirty clothes .  After, like, three days, you completely stop smelling yourself .  Thing number four: Nerdfighter gift exchange and blogtv shows Hank, since you and also lots of other nerdfighters can't be there for every event on the tour, I'm live-streaming every one on blogtv .  Also Hank, for the rest of the tour, when nerdfighters give us gifts, we will deliver those gifts to nerdfighters to nerdfighters at the next tour stop .  So for instance, some lucky lady in Atlanta is soon going to be the proud owner of this guy   .  This will allow me to keep the carry-on luggage carried on and also bring joy to the hearts of lots of nerdfighters .  All right Hank, to summarize: lost my camcorder; you're awesome; blogtv liveshows for the entire tour; nerdfighter gift exchange is made of awesome; thanks to all the nerdfighters for making my heart burst with the love; aaaaaand it's ok to be dirty .  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow, and, as always, Best Wishes !                 
Oh, hi there Hank .  It's Friday October 24th and this is the bath robe they gave me at this hotel Htchhaaaa ! I couldn't bring myself to actually put it on naked cause I don't know what the previous tenants did in it .  Hank I've got like four minutes to record today's video blog so it's all gonna have to be in one take which as you know from having seen the footage that I don't put into Vlogbrothers videos means that today's video is gonna suck . Sorry !  But I just wanted to say a couple of things .  Number 1 you are getting punished but I'm going to punish you by making you do something that you already should have done . You once agreed to go to the Sex and the City movie dressed as Carrie Bradshaw and now you've gotta do it, even though its not in theaters so you'll have to do it at your house but whatever seeing you dressed as Carrie Bradshaw will still be funny . Also Hank I wanna say thanks to you and to all the Nerdfighters who made it possible for Paper Towns to premiere at number five on the New York Times' Best Seller List next week .  I mean I was surprised last December when Nerdfighters proved that they could take over YouTube, but I didn't think we could take over the New York Times' Best Seller List ! So thank to everyone who bought Paper Towns and I hope you like it . Hold on I gotta recreate the thing on the sidebar . Also Hank the New York Times' Best Seller List is not the only good thing that's happened to Paper Towns in the last 48 hours . In what is surely the best kept secret in the history of Nerdfighteria, Hank I can now officially tell you and everyone that the movie rights to Paper Towns have been optioned by Mandate and Mr Mudd, the people who made that great movie Juno . I mean Hank the last time these people made a movie it won a bunch of Oscars ! No pressure or anything . By the way, it was the producers at Mr Mudd who I said best wishes to lo those many months ago .  But it didn't make them hate me .  Now they wanna make a movie ! Best Wishes for the win ! Hank before I go I have to tell you what happened when my second novel An Abundance of Katherines was published .  On the day it came out the Yeti and I went to a bookstore and there were no copies .  Then I went home and we had some soup .  Then we watched CSI and went to bed . The fact that this experience has been so radically different, that I got to hang out with two hundred made of awesome Nerdfighters last night while hundreds more were watching on BlogTV . I think it's the nicest gift that I've ever been given . Hank I'm not gonna get cheesy on you, I'm not gonna say the L word but I hope you understand that all of this would have been impossible without you . So anyway Hank in solidarity with you and your punishment and also to express my gratitude to the Nerdfighters I have a question for Nerdfighteria . What can I do for you ?  You want me to eat a Blenderized happy meal ?  You want me to send some money to Bangladesh ?  You tell me . I owe you guys big time and I know I can't pay you back but I'm gonna start trying .  Let me know what I can do for you in comments . Hank, Nerdfighters, thank you thank you thank you for being awesome and as always: best wishes !                 
" Good morning, Hank, it's Monday !  " I think .  .  . I think it's Tuesday .  .  . I think it's gonna be Tuesday . Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday, someday at the end of October, and you just got said  " hello "  to by bunch of extremely excited Nerdfighters in Phoenix, Arizona, who were only able to say  " hello "  to you, because of my awesome new camcorder !    .  *moves it* Oh, wait !  If I move the camcorder, how am I gonna take the picture of the camcorder, using .  .  .  camcorder ?  !  DANG IT ! *the intro*Ok, Hank, so you might remember that, in my last video, I asked the Nerdfighters what I could do for them, after they did all this awesome stuff for me, including getting  " Paper Towns "  on the New York Times Bestseller List ?  ?  -  And it turns out that the Nerdfighters do indeed have some requests .  " I think you should do NaNoWriMo in November, which is National Novel Writing Month !  " Unfortunately, despite getting down on my knees every night and praying that God turn me into James Patterson - I'm not able to write a novel in a month .  However, in the month of November, I AM considering  " National Finish the Revision of Your Book, I Mean, Seriously Come On Month " , also known as NAFRYBMSCM .  .  .  The only problem with that is that November is also  " National Drive Around America With Your Brother Month " , or NADAWIBMO !  So, I'm definitely gonna do NADAWIBMO, and I'm gonna TRY to do NAFRYBMSCM, and I apologize in advance that it's gonna be totally impossible to do the NaNoWriMo .  " Make sure when they make the movie of  " Paper Towns "  they don't ruin it !  "  - Umm .  .  . ok !  You're not gonna like the way I respond to that request .  First, I don't think that they can ruin the book with the movie .    Also I ascribe to the belief that, in order to properly adapt a book into a film, you have to radically change, like, everything about the book .  Sorry ! Perfecter of Chemistry says:  " You can repay us by promoting literature online, and also in schools everywhere .  "  It's funny you should bring that up, Perfecter of Chemistry .  So, Hank, today I was in a high school in Seattle, tryin' to get kids excited about readin', talkin' about books and why they still matter, and blahblahblah .  .  .   And, um .  .  .  pretty much during my entire presentation, there was a lot of, like, laughter, and I didn't know exactly what they were laughing at .  I was like:  " I guess I am just one .  .  . funny guy !  "   And about 45 minutes into my one-hour talk, I opened it up for questions, and .  .  . like, 30 hands shot up, which is a little bit unusual, so I called on someone and they were like:  " Um .  .  .  yes, Mr .  Green, are you aware of the fact that your zipper is, like, flagrantly, almost obscenely, unzipped ?  "  Oooh, NO, I DIDN'T, but I did, Hank--I gave my ENTIRE speech about the IMPORTANCE OF IMAGINING OTHER PEOPLE COMPLEXLY, with, like, a massively unzipped zipper .  " Can you just, like, give me a hug ?  You're just like a giant teddy-bear and I just LOVE you .  "  - Did you have to say that I'm like a GIANT teddy-bear ?  ?  Couldn't've you just said that I'm like a regular teddy-bear ?  Look !  I know that the weight watchers hasn't gone well, you try eatin' on the road .  It's HARD out here for a touring-author !  !  " It would be awesome if you win on a national campaign to make sky-diving legal for minors !  "  *laugh* I mean, Hank, knowing what you do about me, can you imagine a campaign that I am less likely to go on ?  ?  I don't think sky-diving should be legal for ANYONE !  It's CRAZY !  You shouldn't jump out of plane - planes are for STAYING in .  " Make my Walmart get 'Paper Towns . ' "  - It's a actually an exceptionally bad idea to buy your books at Walmart, because - if everyone buys their books at Walmart, then we're looking at the future, when about 30-50 books will be published each year .  Which would've had kind of a chilling affect on American cultural discourse .  PLUS, it would've put me out the job, because Walmart thinks my books are too dirty to stock . So, Hank, it was starting to look like there was nothing that Nerdfighters wanted me to do, that I could do for them ?  I mean: I can't do NaNoWriMo, because I don't have time, my conscience won't allow me to advocate for minors skydiving, because I think it's a terrible idea, and I can't get my books in Walmart, because I'm too dirty !  But then, finally, Hank, I saw a fulfill-able request: " Could you record yourself, doing your happy dance for us, in 18 different states ?  "  - *happydance* YES !  I .  CAN !  My zipper is unzipped !  DANG it ! Hank, I'll see you in just a few minutes, at the amazing Seattle Public library !                 
Good Morning Hank, it's Thursday, October 30th .  That means it's show and tell Thursday, the day where I show you real presents that real nerdfighters have given me on my tour .  Hank, broadly speaking nerdfighters have been giving me two kinds of presents .  The first is the kind that's related to my book .  Like this dreidel, which, as you'll no doubt recall, is what they call the minivan .  I'm not good at spinning dreidels .   And this black Santa who on his left hand is reminding us: Do not forget to be awesome .  Also this real life minivan that I got in Phoenix .  Let me look .  .  .  nope, no cracks .  Must be a sealed vessel .  The second kind of presents that I've been receiving: stuff related to nerdfighters, like this actual hat that came from someone who actually works at the actual Ning .  I was signing books last night and she was like:  " Hi, I'm Laura, I'm from the Ning .  "   And I was like:  " Yeah, I know, everbody's from the Ning .  I'm from the Ning, capt .  cockatiel's from the Ning, tons of people are from the Ning .  "   And she was like:  " No, I work at Ning . com, the company .  "   And I was like:  " Oh my god !  "  It was like a celebrity sighting .  Like, the person who made it possible for us to have a Ning was just standing there, with a free hat for me .  Look Hank, military insignia .   And check out this nice nerdfighter bracelet, or ultimately a necklace for an extremely small-necked person .  Also, using some kind of magic spongy material I've never seen before, a nerdfighter made me both a puppy-sized elephant and a little Willy with a cast .  Hello, Bubbles the nerdfighting puppy .  Hank, I kind of miss Willy .  Also, I can't wait to get home to him and I'll tell you why .  It's not because I miss cleaning pee off the hardwood floor or even because I miss the constant barking .  It's because a nerdfighter in Los Angeles made me a puppy sized elephant costume for Willy .  You put his legs through here and then he's an elephant .  He walks around and he's got a trunk and he's got this little head .  So he'll just like walk around and he'll be like:  " My name is Willy, I'm going to pee on some stuff .  "  I mean, seriously Hank, how awesome is this ?  I mean Hank, that costume is so awesome, I have to have a conversation with a finger puppet monkey about it .  - Isn't that awesome ?  - Yes !  - I know, can you get over it ?  - No !  - Hey, by the way, is it hard, having this banana that's like perpetually close to your mouth that you could never eat for the rest of your life ?  - Yeah, it sucks .   And finally Hank, I'd just like to share with you this page from a fictional version of the National Inquirer in which Oprah is pwned .  I don't know if I'm saying  " I'll destroy you !  "  or if she's saying  " I'll destroy you !  " , but I do know that you look funny in that tomato costume .  Also, right down at the bottom, beside  " Nevil obtains godlike powers "  is  " Margo flips out over tell-all book "  .  It's just so awesome, and that's not even to mention all the peeps I've gotten or the hundreds of other made of awesome presents I've gotten from nerdfighters .  Thank you all so so much .  Hank, thanks for being awesome, I'll see you tomorrow and then I'll see you on Saturday in real life because we're getting ready for the Great American Tour de Nerdfighting 2008 .  I'm so excited, aaargh .  Best wishes !                 
Willy, come to me .  Come to me in my time of need .  Hold me .   Good morning, Hank, it's Sunday, some snowy day in December, and today I am going to conquer one of my greatest phobias: heights .    Should I have Willy tell this story instead of me telling it ?  Maybe so .     Willy: Okay, so John recently went to an author party with Scott Westerfeld and Justine Larbalestier, and they were teasing him about his profound fear of heights .   And they pointed to a table in a hotel room and said,  " How much would it cost for you to stand on top of that table ?  "   So John had to come up with a monetary figure that was high enough that he wouldn't have to stand on the table, but low enough that he wouldn't seem entirely crazy for being unwilling to stand on top of the table due to his profound fear of heights .   And the number he finally came up with ?  $5,000 .  To which Scott Westerfeld and Justine Larbalestier said,  " Okay .  "   And then offered to make a donation of five thousan--agh, Willy !  You are supposed to be telling the story, not licking !   And then offered him a donation of $5,000 to his favorite charities if he would stand on top of the table .    And then, being my courageous owner, I'm sure you can imagine what John did next: he completely failed to get on top of the table because he is a gigantic wuss .    But Scott and Justine agreed to extend the deadline of table-standing until today, so today I am going to stand on top of a table .  For the children .   I mean, people are gonna think that I'm literally crazy .  Can we take my pulse for the purposes of showing that I am legitimately afraid ?  What do you think it is ?     I don't think getting on the table will be hard at all, I think that standing on the table will be exceptionally hard .  So .  I guess I just .    I can't do it .  I liter-- I don't think I can do it, man .     Oh my God .  .  .  I'm gonna do it .  I'm gonna do it .   And then I'm gonna, I'm gonna stand up on the table and I'm gonna get right back down .  Okay, can we have another countdown ?  I'm gonna stand up on the table, I'm gonna get right back down .  I'm gonna go right now, I'm gonna go .  I'm up .  F**k !  Okay, I'm on the table !     Yes !    I got on the table, I stood on the table !  Yes, $5,000 !   Hank, I don't want to brag, but I think that today I have shown a lot of, you know, physical courage .  I have proven once and for all that Nerdfighters are tough .  It's like Franklin Delano Roosevelt said: We have nothing to fear but fear itself .  .  .  and heights .   I'll see you tomorrow .   Willy !  Let's run through the snow together !  This way this way this way !                 
Good morning, Hank, it's the day after you got featured on YouTube, good work !  In honor of the recent video you made where you told us 50 jokes in 4 minutes, and also in honor of my first book, Looking for Alaska, which is about a kid who memorizes the last words of famous people, today I am going to share with you the real last words of fifty famous and deceased individuals .  And .  .  .  . go ! George Washington's last words were  " 'Tis well .  " John Adams said,  " Thomas Jefferson still survives "  which, curiously, wasn't true; Jefferson had died earlier that same day, July 4th, 1826 . Jefferson's last words were  " Is it the Fourth ?  " When Henrik Ibsen's nurse said,  " You seem to be feeling much better today, "  he said  " On the contrary .  " Winston Churchhill said  " I'm bored with it all .  " The Roman emperor Vespasian said  " Woe is me, I think I'm becoming a god .  " Nero said,  " What an artist the world is losing in me .  "  Those Roman emperors sure knew a thing or two about humility . When Lady Astor woke up from a stupor to find everyone she knew in her room she said,  " Am I dying or is this my birthday ?  "  It wasn't her birthday . The poet Dylan Thomas's last known words were  " I've had 18 straight whiskeys; I believe that's the record .  " Abraham Lincoln said to his wife,  " They won't think anything of it, "  just before John Wilkes Booth shot him . Booth's last words were  " Useless, useless .  " Henry Ward Beecher:  " Now comes the mystery .  " The Irish playwright Brendan Behan turned to a nun who was drawing his blood and said,  " Bless you sister, may all your sons be bishops .  " Che Guevara:  " Shoot coward, you are only going to kill a man .  " Pancho Villa wasn't quite so composed, his last words were  " Don't let it end like this, tell them I said something !  " Ben Franklin:  " A dying man can do nothing easy .  " President Millard Fillmore, after a sip of porridge said,  " The nourishment is palatable .  " FDR:  " I have a terrific headache .  " Robert E .  Lee:  " Strike the tent !  " Civil War Union general John Sedgwick was staring across the Confederate lines and he said,  " They couldn't hit an elephant at this dist- " Confederate general Stonewall Jackson said,  " Let us cross over the river and rest under the shade of those trees .  " Charles Darwin said,  " I am not in the least afraid to die .  " The Enlightenment writer Voltaire, when asked on his death bed to repudiate the devil said,  " This doesn't seem like a good time to be making enemies .  " Gene O' Neill said  " I knew it, born in a hotel room, and, dammit, dying in a hotel room .  " Elizabeth Barrett Browning when asked how she was feeling, said  " Beautiful .  " Emily Dickinson said  " I must go in, the fog is rising .  " The writer Paul Claudel wasn't quite so symbolically resonant, his last words were  " Doctor, do you think it was the sausage ?  " O'Henry:  " Turn up the lights, I don't want to go home in the dark .  " Oscar Wilde, dying in a garishly decorated hotel room, famously said,  " Either that wallpaper goes, or I do .  " Tolstoy said,  " The truth is I care a great deal how they- "  and then died before finishing the sentence . The writer Lope de Vega, told he was about to die, said,  " Alright then, I'll say it .  Dante makes me sick .  " When John Field was dying, he was asked whether he was a Papist or a Calvinist, and he answered  " I am a pianist .  " Queen Elizabeth ?   " All of my possessions for a moment in time .  " W . C .  Fields - and I'm going to tone this down for any little nerdfighter ears - said,  " Gosh darn the fracking world and everyone in it but you, Carlotta "  which sounds romantic until you learn that his wife was named Hattie .  Carlotta was his mistress . Franz Kafka, begging for a morphine overdose said,  " Kill me, or else you are a murderer .  " After a doctor told him that the angels were waiting for him, General Ethan Allen said,  " Waiting, are they ?  Well, let 'em wait .  "  and then he died . Peter Pan author J . M .  Barrie said,  " I can't sleep .  "   .  .  . Yes you can . Pablo Picasso:  " Drink to me .  " Malcolm X:  " This is a house of peace .  " When he was asked if he had any parting words of wisdom, the hotelier Conrad Hilton said,  " Leave the shower curtain on the inside of the tub .  "  Which is good advice, although in retrospect I would've preferred it if he had said  " Never let my granddaughter Paris in front of a video camera .  " The economist John Maynard Keynes said  " I wish I had drunk more champagne .  " The famous Australian outlaw Ned Kelly pulled a Vonnegut and said  " So it goes .  " Edgar Allan Poe ?   " Lord help my poor soul .  " Second City founder Del Close said,  " I'm tired of being the funniest person in the room .  " Walt Whitman ?   " Shift, shift !  " Thomas Edison said,  " It's very beautiful over there .  " George Bernard Shaw ?   " Well, it'll be a new experience, anyway .  " H . G .  Wells:  " Go away, I'm alright .  " Daniel Webster ?   " I still live .  "  And finally, Beethoven:  " Friends applaud, the comedy is over .  " Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Friday .  It's Question Friday, the day that I answer real questions from real Nerdfighters .   " Are you going to live in Indianapolis forever ?  "  Well no, I'm going to spend the vast majority of forever deceased .   " Are you a rebel ?  "  No, I've always been for the Empire, that's no secret .  The world needs order .   And death stars .   " Are you aware that on average that your videos that do discuss giraffe mating get ten times more views then your videos that don't discuss giraffe mating ?  "  Yeah, I don't know what it is exactly, but for some reason, as previously noted, people love giraffes who love giraffes .  Maybe it's because the mating habits of the giraffe are profoundly fascinating .  For instance, did you know, and by the way this is all going to be disturbing, when boy giraffes wanna have babies with girl giraffes, the first thing that they do is use their heads to nudge the girl giraffes in their lady parts .  They do this, and by the way Hank you may want to put a bucket nearby, because it causes the girl giraffes to pee and then the boy giraffes drink the pee because they can taste whether or not the girl giraffes are ovulating .  *gag* Sorry, I pictured it, I pictured it .   " Are you thinking what I'm thinking ?  "  Ummm .  .  .  if you're thinking that urine-swilling giraffe sex is the most profoundly unerotic thing you've ever heard of then yes .  Otherwise, you disgust me .   " Are you trying to take over the world using muffins and silly string ?  "  Hank, we've been found out .   " Are you gonna come to my graduation party ?  "  No, but where is it, I'll send an emissary .   " Are you my father ?  "  Let me answer your question with a question .  Are you a nine month old West Highland Terrier with an indomitable desire to eat shoes ?  If not, no .   " Are you stuck in the labyrinth ?  "  In the labyrinth, but not stuck .   " Are you thinking about writing more books ?  "  Yes, I'm contracted to write at least three more books, so don't worry .   " Are you even reading this ?  "  Well I was, but now I'm doing something else .   " Are you an optimist with regard to the future of humanity ?  "  Well, I'm an optimist in the sense that I think our relentless attempt to extinguish the species will fail for the foreseeable future .  Yay !   " Are you Kurt Vonnegut ?  "  Dude, I wish !   " Are you Santa ?  "  No, Santa's black .   " Are you Gandalf ?  "  You shall not .  .  .  I mean ,who am I kidding ?  My wizard stick is an umbrella .  Also, I don't think Gandalf calls it a wizard stick .   " Are you King James II of England ?  "  Well, I'm not Catholic, I'm not British, and I don't have shoulder length curly hair and if I did, I wouldn't part it in the middle .   " Are you a banana ?  "  Oh, come on, these questions are just getting stupid, like do I have some kind of pale exterior that you can peel away and then find edible meat inside ?  Oh, yes .   But, do I thrive in tropical climates ?  Oh my God, I am a banana .   " Are you going to put Bubbles the nerdfighting puppy in a video soon ?  "  *clip of Bubbles*  " Are you Jacques Derrida ?  "  Je vais a la bibliotheque is the only sentence I know in French .  Therefore, I'm probably not Jacques Derrida .   " Are you a 40-year old virgin ROFL ?  "  Is a question that was asked by someone who doesn't know the proper placement of question marks .   " Are you gonna do your happy dance immediately after reading my question ?  "  Yes !  *performs happy dance* Yes !  Hank, Happy 2009 .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Sunday, it's news day, and since the Israeli army invaded the Gaza Strip last night, I suppose I have to talk about it even though it makes me miserable .  To counter that misery, I'm going to show you footage of Bubbles the Nerdfighting puppy being cute while I talk .  The reason I hate talking about Israel and Palestine is that people get so emotional that the quality of discourse is awful .  Mostly it's just people screaming  " The Palestinians are animals !  "  or  " The Israelis are animals !  "  Both of which are true, of course; The Romans pointed it out long ago, Hank .   " Homo homini lupus " : Man is a wolf to man .  So okay, when people talk about this they often say that the anger goes back thousands of years .  That's true, of course, but the roots of every war go back thousands of years, and just because an argument's old doesn't mean it's intractable .  For instance, Hank, our argument over whether the Chuck E .  Cheese band's version of  " You Say It's Your Birthday "  is or is not great, you pro, me con, dates back more than twenty years, and yet, despite the relative ancientness of this argument, I don't want to kill you over it .  So let's not start two thousand years ago, let's start in 1947 when Britain still had about a fifth of the world colonized .  The UN decides that Britain's colonization of Palestine should end and that two independent states should be created: Israel, a sovereign homeland for the Jewish people, and independent Palestine .  The disputed holy city of Jerusalem, which would be surrounded by Palestine, would be run by the UN .  Excellent idea, and in fact everyone, and I mean everyone, who is not entirely crazy still agrees that this is the only solution, with independent Israel, independent Palestine, and a shared Jerusalem .   And yet it hasn't happened .  Sixty years and several wars later, Israel has dramatically expanded its borders as a defense against further attack, and Palestinian land, which is still not an independent country, has been split into two disconnected areas: The West Bank, and a twenty-five mile area along the Mediterranean Sea called the Gaza Strip .  Both Palestine and Israel have unfairly attacked and dehumanized the other, and it's useless, albeit tempting, to make historical judgments about whose awfulness has been worse .  So then in 2006, the Palestinians have their first really free elections and the Fatah party, which has been the most powerful political party in Pakistan   for decades, loses .  The winner ?  The internationally recognized terrorist organization Hamas .  A brief primer on Hamas .  They're the Palestinian arm of the Muslim brotherhood, this radical group that sucks worse than the Chuck E .  Cheese band, and has inspired such A#1 organizations such as Al Qaeda and the Taliban .  The Muslim brotherhood is illegal in Egypt, which is one of the reasons the Egyptian government hates Hamas .  Hamas is responsible for tons of rocket attacks and suicide bombings in Israel that target civilians, but they're also responsible for almost all of the infrastructure built in the last fifteen years in the Gaza Strip .  They build hospitals and schools and orphanages .  Israeli analysts think about ninety percent of Hamas' budget goes into social welfare programs; the other ten percent into weapons .   And it's important to remember that the Palestinian voters, like American voters, don't vote solely on foreign policy .  After all, most American voters prioritize the economy over the Iraq war, so too with the Palestinians .   But anyway, since the election, the Hamas lobs rockets and Israel responds with better weaponry, tit for tat, has worsened consistently, culminating in the invasion last night .  Ultimately, Israel wants to get Hamas out of power, which I think is a great idea, but unfortunately most analysts feel that this war will strengthen Hamas rather than weaken it .   And now, Hank, here is the John Green path to peace in Israel and Palestine in one minute .  Israel needs to stop allowing the expansion of illegal settlements on Palestinian territory, and begin to dismantle even the old ones .  Hamas and the al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigade need to stop attacks on Israelis immediately .  Israel needs to free its political prisoners, Fatah needs to quit ruining its legitimacy with corruption .  If they do that, Hamas will be out of power within a year .  At that point, Fatah and Israel can sit down together and draw a map similar to the 1949 map, with real and lasting sovereignty for the Palestinian people, even if it means Israel opening itself up to some kind of lack of security, that's a situation no one's going to be happy with, but everyone can live with .   And then, you will acknowledge that you were wrong to like the Chuck E .  Cheese band when you were five .  Salaam, and shalom, and best wishes .                 
So today, Hank, we're going to talk about recent events and a couple of African nations .  As I'm sure you've noticed, this is front page news .  .  .  in the alternate universe where people care more about the health and well-being of others than they care about the narcissistic personality disorders of American actresses .  Part One: Chad .  No, not Chad, or Chad, or Chad .  Chad .  Chad being of course the landlocked nation in central Africa with two traffic lights in the entire country, neither of which work .  Chad being the country where an amazingly corrupt dictator and his government are at war with even more corrupt rebel forces .  So, Hank, right now in Chad, there's no war going on, but once the roads become passable again, the war will restart .  Because it restarts every year .   And you know how wars have good guys and bad guys and there's one team you root for and one team you root against, there's an Allies and an Axis, there's a Rebel and an Empire .  This isn't a war like that, and in fact, very few of the wars in Africa are like that, which is part of the reason why they don't get a lot of news coverage .  It's because it's not easy to tell a story that makes sense .  When we look at why this stuff happens, we can't say,  " Oh, its tribalism; it's been happening forever, "  because that's not actually true .  I mean, there is tribalism in Chad, but as anyone who's ever been to an Alabama-Auburn football game can attest, there's also tribalism in America .   And when we lament wars like this, we have to acknowledge that the people who are fighting them are responsible and need to stop fighting right now .   But we've also got to acknowledge that colonialism screwed the world up a ton .  Hank, I'd like to share with you a quote from a Wikipedia page about Chad .   " The French first penetrated Chad in 1891 .  "  Oh Wikipedia, sometimes you're inaccurate, sometimes you're accurate, and sometimes you're more accurate than even you realize .  How did it feel when the French penetrated you ?  Uh, it was uncomfortable, I didn't enjoy it .  I was afraid .   And then after 1891, did the French ever penetrate you again ?  Oh my, yes .  They penetrated me repeatedly .  Part two: pirates, here played by Willy because I don't have any pictures of actual pirates .  Okay so quick historical background .  Somalia's a country on the east coast of Africa; it gained its independence in 1960 .  In 1969 it had a military coup because that's what everyone was doing back in 1969 .   And the guy from that military coup, General Barre, maintained power until 1991 .  At which point there was a coup, and he was removed in favor of .  .  .  no one .  No joke, Hank, nobody took power .  So since 1991, in lieu of having a government, Somalia has split up into three, semi-autonomous regions .  In the south, you have the total anarchy of no functioning government; there's been a 20 year long civil war; in the last few years, there's been a battle between these Islamist militants who would impose a sort of Taliban-style Islamic law in Somalia, and then on the other side, you have everyone else whose like,  " As bad as anarchy is, that sounds worse .  "  The US and Somalia's neighbors tend to support that second option, which means that for the last few years we've put all our weight behind the Transitional Federal Government of Somalia which is ostensibly running the south .  Although given that the Transitional Federal Government has been around for nine years, it has a funny way of being transitional .   And given that its influence only extends to a third of the country, it has a funny way of being federal .   And given its complete inability to do even the most rudimentary tasks associated with governance, it has a funny way of being a government .  Then in the far northwest, bordering Djibouti, which I'm obviously only mentioning so that I can say Djibouti we have Somaliland .  Somaliland is actually like a functioning democracy with its own currency and economy and everything .  Then finally on the northeast coast you have Puntland which I'm probably mispronouncing which has become the world capital of piracy .  In fact in the last year, it is estimated that Somali pirates form Puntland have made more than $150 million in ransom .  Hank, in a country where the average person make a dollar fifty a day, $150 million is a lot of Djibouti .  Sorry .   But seriously, Hank, in the context of the larger Somalian tragedy, I would argue that the problem of piracy, while serious, is a little bit marrrrginal .  Sorry .  So here's my question .  Who's at fault for the piracy ?  Who's at fault for the wars in Chad ?  Is it the combatants themselves, is it France and Italy and Britain for their disastrous colonization's of these countries, is it us for not paying attention to these wars in which tens of thousands of real people are really dying ?  Those aren't rhetorical questions; I really want answers .  Hank, congratulations on the hugely successful release of your first album - buy Hank's album - I can't wait for the first song Wednesday .  I'll see you then if I don't see you before .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  As you can see I'm in the middle of a small office reorganization project which has gotten just a little bit out of control . So in the process of my office reorganization project I've come across a lot of great things, like this beanie which I'll be wearing for the rest of the video .  Hank, I've also come across this notebook which I apparently filled with journal entries when I was in middle school during the first Gulf War, even though I don't have any remember ever having written any of this . In total I wrote about 200 pages in this notebook .   And you, my beloved brother, are mentioned zero times .   But don't feel bad Hank; there's nothing about mom or dad or our grandparents .  It's all about ME . Hank let me give you a little example of what I'm talking about .    " Hi, how's it goin' ?  My life is good .  The ground war could start any day now .  I still like Whitney .  " I'm pretty sure that this 200 page study in narcissism was an assignment for a composition class, so it's mostly just like song lyrics that I write down to try to fill up space .  For example, and I swear to God I am not making this up:   " I heard a new song on the radio . 'Stop, collaborate, and listenIce is back with his brand new invention' "  And then I go on, and I quote a lot of Ice Ice Baby, and then I say: " I like rap .  I like black nationalist rap .  "  Here's another charming doozy .    " Life sucks .  I was doing fine until James and Brian came along and they told Jennifer I said I was going out with her .  Which I did say, but they shouldn't have told her .  "  And then when I'd read almost the entire journal I came across this page, where I say:   " Maybe someday I'll be reading this, so from now on I have to be truthful .  I haven't lied that much in this journal .  " So now I am forced to read a document that I don't remember writing under the assumption that much of what is contained inside its pages is untrue .  Frankly I hope that I made it all up in some kind of fever dream .  But by far the most interesting thing about this document is the way I write about Whitney, whom I apparently loved immensely, even though, until recently, I had forgotten her last name .  There is one moment here where I literally say:   " I don't know why I like Whitney .  She's so flat .  "   Oh my God .  Did I really say that ?   And then did I think that is was an acceptable thing to WRITE DOWN and then TO KEEP FOR MANY YEARS ?  ! So girls, let that be a lesson to you .  You need to know that boys are more like that than they are like Edward Cullen .   And boys: when you like a girl, be nice to her .  Not like drive past her house in the middle of the night nice, just nice . Also if you are an eighth grader, or if you have an eighth grader, take heart !  It's probably not this bad .   And I turned out alright .  I mean, I'm a grown man wearing a beanie making videos on the internet .    Hank I'll see you tomorrow . Sorry I didn't mention you in my journal, I feel like crap about it .                 
Good Morning, Hank, it's Sunday, it's News Day .  Pride is one of the Seven Deadly Sins, but little known fact: Nerd Pride is one of the Seven Lively Virtues . Hank, since it's News Day today; I'm gonna tell you about some recent problems in the publishing industry and I'm going to do so using my beloved medium of text !    Remember text ?  But since I know that would be incredibly boring we're gonna augment the video with Argyle the One-Eyed, Book-Reading Sock Puppet and Black Santa .  They're gonna have a dance party while listening to a song from your new CD !    Text on screen:So Hank, the book business has been stagnant for the last several years-partly because people buy fewer books and partly because people buy fewer NEW books . Beginning in October of 2008, though, sales began to decline dramatically .  Several prominent bookstores closed in 2008, many more will close this year . On Dec .  8th, known somewhat self-importantly in the publishing world as  " Black Wednesday, "  Random House, Simon and Schuster, and Houghton all announced layoffs .  Houghton has, for the moment stopped acquiring new manuscripts .  Houghton is owned by a hedge fund .  It turns out hedge funds suck at making books .  Who knew ! Book publishing is certainly healthier than magazines and newspapers, but the economic downturn is hitting books harder than most industries .  More and more, it looks like the contractions in publishing won't pass . Do people still like to read ?  Will they read in the future ?  Are people willing to spend a premium on new books ?  ** Authors and publishers don't get paid for used books . OR DO PEOPLE JUST WANT TO WATCH SANTA/ARGYLE DANCE ON TEH INTERNETZ ? I think people still like to read . We learned in 2007 that as hard as it is to make a video every other day, it's even harder to live without text .   And because books require a level of abstraction that images don't, text based stories still off a unique richness .  No matter how good a  " Paper Towns "  movie might be-and I hope it's awesome-it can't be  " like the book .  "  Nothing can be like a book except a book . So stories will survive this upheaval-but how ?  That's not a rhetorical question .  Anyone with ideas, please share them in comments . I'm sad because good editors are losing their jobs and good writers are finding it harder to reach an audience .   And the worst is still to come .  More book stores closing .  More layoffs .  Fewer book reviews .  Fewer new acquisitions .  Fewer publishing houses .  It makes Black Santa very sad !  But the good news is still very good: Stories matter .  So young writers, do not despair !  Reinvent .  And now, Hank: As you and the nerdfighters compose your thoughtful comments on how   to save the book, let's enjoy some Dance Party ! Oh, and nerdfighters !  Thanks so much for reading  " Paper Towns .  "  My readers are made of so much awesome . Yeah, I mean nothing against black Santa/Argyle Dance Party, but doesn't a good book offer a level of intellectual and emotional engagement that my Puppetry Skillz do not ? Hank's CD: http://www . dftba . comLyrics to the song:I'd seen your videos and I think they're so jokes And now we're getting flirty with a couple Facebook pokesI confess that I've adapted to your timezoneAt least now I don't have to watch YouTube aloneOh even though tonight I've gotA date with my bookshelfI'd much rather touch and hug you And nothing elseWon't you be in nerdfighterlike with me ? Won't you stay up all night on Skype with me ? We could go on a date to the libraryToo bad you don't live anywhere near meOver a romantic lunch, we'd blurb some lolbooks And blenderize our meals while other tables give us dirty looksDo a reading of  " Pooh Gets Stuck "  in my pantsIf we could hang out IRL, I'd do my happy danceOh even though tonight I've gotA date with my bookshelfI'd much rather touch and hug youMaybe something elseWon't you be in nerdfighterlike with me ? Won't you stay up all night on Skype with me ? We'd slow dance to music that's royalty freeToo bad you don't live anywhere near meOh even though tonight I've gotA date with my bookshelfI'd much rather touch and hug you And something elseWon't you be in nerdfighterlike with me ? Won't you stay up all night on Skype with me ? We could go on a date to the libraryToo bad you don't live anywhere near me                
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday, January 27th .  I'm in the fifth week of my office reorganization project .   And, as you can see, it's going swimmingly .  Hank, today's video comes to you in two very special parts .  Part one:  " The Best New Years Resolution Ever .  Happy New Year .  Streamers .  "  Hank,  " The Best New Years Resolution Ever .  Happy New Year .  Streamers .  "  is a book that I wrote when I was a child that I have discovered during my office reorganization project .    Three years ago on New Years Day, everybody in my family had to make one New Years resolution .  I hated that .   " Mom, why us !  "   " Because !  "    My mother promised to clean out the drawers .  She hasn't done that since we left Michigan in '26 .   " Mom, there is little brown things .  "  Dad promised to weigh under 600 pounds .  That would be a miracle .   " I promise to weigh under 600 pounds .  "   "  But dad, that's what you promised last year .  "    My brother promised to take a bath .  He smells like a skunk .  At the bottom of the stairs like a typical poor kid, Hank's like,  " I'll take a bath .  "   And then at the top of the stairs little mister rich pants says,  " You've never done that !  "   And me, well, I promise to try my hardest .   " Bravo !  "   " Thank you .  "   And out of all the resolutions, mine was the only one to come true .   " Yay !  "   And then you can see the stairs that lead up to the top of the podium .  What has the first podium slot ?  Oh, it's me .  The end .  Oh, my god .  I'm so sorry .  I mean, dad, you're not fat .   And, mom, there is no little brown things in the cabinets .   And, Hank, you don't sme .  .  . well, actually, you could stand to take more showers .  Part two: The re-invigoration of the Ning .  Hank, the Ning has been suffering from a little bit of neglect, so much so that in fact many people watching this video are probably saying,  " What's the Ning ?  "  Link in the side bar .   And I think I've come to the conclusion that we just can't run the Ning by ourselves .  Hank, what we need is some Ningmasters .  Ningmaster's a fun word to say .  It's like all the best parts of a ringmaster except you don't have to get eaten by lions .  So, nerdfighters, starting soon there will be a few Ningmasters .  They're going to feature new content on the main page of the Ning .  They're going to organize and moderate the crazy Ning forums .   And they're generally just going to raise up the awesome levels of the Ning .  If you are a committed, made-of-awesome nerdfighter who would like to be a Ningmaster, apply by creating a blog post telling me why you should be a Ningmaster, and then I will pick a few of my favorites and those people will become Ningmasters .  Also, even if you do not want to be a Ningmaster, if you do want to share your creative awesome with other people on the Ning, start making blog posts .  In fact, even if you're uploading photos and videos, try to upload them as blog posts .  Because that makes it much more likely that we can feature them on the front page .  Okay, I've got to go back to writing the Paper Towns screen play .  Hank, thanks for being awesome .  Nerdfighters, oh, my gosh, you're so great .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Sunday January 31st .  Are you ready for some football ?  Or, in lieu of that, are you ready for some commercials starring monkeys ?  God I love monkey commercials .    Oh but before I start the video an important note to Nerdfighters who live in or around Chicago who are over the age of 21 .    I'm gonna be part of Mark Bazer's live talk show at the Hideout on Friday February 6th at 6:30 .  It's 5 bucks it's gonna be awesome .  It's an awesome bar .  It's gonna be a great time, lots of cool guests, and Mark is a genius .      And now to the Super Bowl .   Hank on this most sacred day of secular America I'm not going to talk about the moral dubiousness of paying men to participate in a sport that is statistically will shorten their lives by 15 years .  Nor am I going to talk about the weird collective mental illness from which Americans suffer that causes them to want to watch corporations sell them goods and services .  No Hank today I want to talk about the football team that is trying today to win their first ever Super Bowl: the Arizona Cardinals .  The CARDINALS ?  !  Hank, I haven't heard a nickname that lame since the English Premier League's Bolton Wanderer's .   - " You guys want to play some soccer ?  "  - " Um, yeah kinda .   But I also just wanna walk around aimlessly .  "   Wait !  Wait !  Wait !  Wait !  Something just occurred to me .  Is it the Cardinals ?    Or is it Cardinals ?    Oh it's the bird, yeah, that's disappointing .   Hank, the Cardinals have the longest current championship drought in the National Football League .  I'm not going to say that's because they're are the only team in the league to have a vegetarian bird as their mascot, but if they do lose Super Bowl XLIII, they need to think long and hard about getting a new, more awesome mascot .   And you will be surprised to learn that I have some suggestions !   One: Ninjas !  They're fast, they're tough, they're deadly, and I think the  " Ask a Ninja "  guy would be open to being their mascot .  Two: The Arizona Mother-in-laws .  Or Three: maybe you want a team name that celebrates tenacity, that reminds your opponents that they can't stop you, they can only hope to contain you .  Like the  " Arizona Herpes .  "  Or  " Herpy zer zees .  "  Or  " Herpy zees .  "  Or  " Herp herpezzes .  "   Now I gotta call Brotherhood 2 . 0 resident mathematician and linguist, Daniel Biss .   " Hey, in your professional opinion what is the plural of herpes ?  Is it like  " herpezes "  or  " herpezes "  or   .  Well then if herpes is the plural then what is the singular ?    Herpum .  So your could be the  " Arizona Herpums .  "    And my final recommendation, number four: is the  " Arizona blood-drinking, silver-haired virgins .  Hank I really feel like for all the NFL's success, it is almost failed to completely penetrate the Twilight fan demographic .  Hank as you can see here in this professionally produced Venn diagram, there is very limited overlap between NFL fans and Twilighters .  In fact the only place where those circles touch is ME !   By the way Hank when I was trying to confirm that Edward Cullen was a virgin, I Googled  " is Edward Cullen a virgin ?  "  I mean I know that repeatedly in the first three Twilight books it talks about how he has never been with a girl, but given the astonishing variety of sentient beings in the world of Twilight that doesn't answer my question .   But anyway you know how when you type something into Google it suggests what you might mean .  Well Hank the most common question that begins with  " is Edward Cullen "  is  " is Edward Cullen real ?  "     NO !  NO !  He is NOT REAL !  He is not real and he is not possible !   Hank I predict that entirely due to mascot superiority the Steelers will win by 6 .  I'll see you on Tuesday !                    
Good morning Hank, it's Sunday, it's News Day, and that means it's time to get on board the Fail Boat with our intrepid Captain: the Dread Pirate Fireball Wilson Roberts ! Hank, the Fail Boat is, of course, the puppy-captained, questionably-seaworthy vessel that we, Nerdfighters, use to transport ourselves around the various islands of our archipelagic empire, known as Nerdfighteria .  AND, that we also use to sail around the world, learning about places currently experiencing world-suck . Where to first, Skipper ? Willy says,  " Italia !  " Yes, Hank, first we're sailing the Fail Boat off to Italy, and then walking eight miles inland to the Vatican, where there has lately been quite a lot of hullabaloo over a certain quasi-bishop named Richard Williamson . Hank, Richard Williamson is a crazy person who, until recently, was excommunicated from the Catholic Church, on account of his being .  .  . crazy .   But then recently, Pope Benedict lifted the excommunication so that they could possibly begin the process of rehabilitating this dude into the church, so he could be a bishop again .  AND, a lot of people are upset about this because Richard Williamson has repeatedly denied that the Holocaust involved the murder of six million Jews . Now, thanks to the public outcry, Williamson has agreed to  " reconsider "  the historical evidence of the Holocaust .  Which is like reconsidering the historic evidence that America had a president called Ronald Reagan . So my guess is that Richard Williamson wants to be a bishop, and so he's gonna say,  " Okay, there was a Holocaust .  I'm sorry .  "   And then maybe he's gonna get rehabilitated .  Which would be an error .  Because in addition to being a Holocaust denier, Richard Williamson also has a lot of crazy beliefs .  Like, for instance that women should not be allowed to go to college .   And, perhaps most importantly, Richard Williamson believes that women should not be allowed to wear pants .  Mr .  Williamson, when you try to take away our ladies' pants, we here in Nerdfighteria take that quite personally . Let me explain something to you sir: the book title  " Everything that Rises Must Converge .  .  . In Your Pants "  is funny .  The book title  " Everything that Rises Must Converge .  .  . In a 19th Century Hoop-skirt that was Designed Explicitly to Limit Your Movements and Thereby Rob You of Your Power "  is NOT funny .   And Roger Williamson, YOU, bishop or no, will not take away my  " In Your Pants "  jokes . Next stop on the Fail Boat BARK BARK BARK .  .  . oh !  Captain Fireball, do you have something you want to say to would-be bishop Williamson ?  BARK BARK GRRR BARK BARK BARKOh my, you tiny, white, fluffy pirates sure do have dirty mouths !  I wouldn't have used THOSE words, but I do agree with the sentiment . Where to next, oh Captain, my Captain ?  BARK BARKVery well, then .  Full speed ahead to Australia !  And just-because-it's-cold-at-your-house-doesn't-mean-global-warming-is-a-lie-news: the deadliest wildfires in the history of Australia are currently raging in the south of the country . So, Hank, for the last little while that has been really hot, and really dry, and really windy in Australia, like, 117 degrees Fahrenheit hot !   And these conditions have combined with what is, in at least some cases, apparent arson to create EPICALLY horrible wildfires .  Hundreds of square miles of wilderness has burned, entire towns have been destroyed, and many people have lost their lives . Hank, you and I have many friends and fellow Nerdfighters, who, when they are not wintering in Nerdfighteria, live in southern Australia .  I know that we're both concerned about them, and I hope that they know that our thoughts and prayers are with them . Hank, this is yourself, or possibly a Me, wearing a You costume in an attempt to cheer up Australian Nerdfighters .  From Captain Fireball Roberts and the whole crew of the Fail Boat, this is Hank Green, saying  " Best Wishes .  " Why, yes, I do also have a Me disguise .  By the way, thank you to the Nerdfighter who made this, but why did I get Kim Jong Il's haircut ?                 
Good Morning Hank, it's Tuesday February 10th, and today I am finally going to answer real questions that real Nerdfighters asked about my real new book, Paper Towns .  There shouldn't be any real spoilers here, but if you're terrified of spoilers, you can solve that problem by reading the book .  What is paper towns about ?  It's about a girl named Margo Roth Spiegelman, her next door neighbor Q, the state of Florida, and Walt Whitman .  How did Song of Myself get to be so central to the plot of Paper Towns ?  Two reasons: First, Song of Myself is a beautiful poem that's deeply involved with how we can imagine other people more effectively, and second, Walt Whitman is hot !  I mean, that guy could sound his barbaric yop over the roofs of my world anytime .  Will Paper Towns ever be a movie ?  I dunno .  The movie rights were acquired by Mr .  Mudd and Mandate, the people who brought you such awesome movies as Juno, and I am currently writing the screenplay, so I guess it's up to me whether or not it's good enough to be made into a movie .  Are Quentin's parents based on people you actually knew, or on your own parents ?  No, but I have had a lot of therapy .  How'd you pick the character names ?  Um, it would take too long to explain it all, so let's talk about Margo Roth Spiegelman .   " Spiegelman "  is a German word that means  " mirror maker, "  like the dude in the old German villages who made the mirrors was the spiegelman .   And Margo is the spiegelman of Paper Towns; when people look at her, they don't see anything that's essentially true about Margo, what they see is is some fun-house mirror reflection of themselves .  Hence the two different but equally inaccurate covers .  I'm 20 years old, am I too old to enjoy Paper Towns ?  No, in fact, just today I got an e-mail from a woman who's 82 years old and she said she liked it .  Is the way Q misimagines Margo similar to the way Pudge misimagines Alaska in your first novel ?  Yeah, definitely .   And I would also argue that whenever we're imagining someone as something more than a person, whether we're Edward-Cullen-izing them, or Alaska-izing them, or Margo-izing them, we're doing them and ourselves a profound disservice .  I would like you to talk more about the use of colors in the book and what each color is meant to represent .  Well, those of you who have read Paper Towns know there's quite a lot of Moby Dick in it .  That sounds dirty, but it isn't .  There is also, of course, a Great White Wall of Cow .   And the bleached white hallways of school and et cetera .  There are also a lot of black Santas .   And then there's Margo's middle name, which means red .  As Melville did in Moby Dick I kind wanted to kind of subvert our expectations that white is a symbol for purity and excellence, and I wanted Margo to be outside that dichotomous realm of what is good, and what is terrifyingly evil .  Daarrarrraaahhh .  I mean I'm just gonna say it Hank, that is the first time in the history of YouTube that a cow has had a fight with a black Santa .  I'm a pioneer .  How many of the details in your novel are purposeful and how many are random ?  Well, ideally nothing in a novel is totally random .  Does Ben's beer sword represent some kind of inner conflict ?  Okay, fair enough, some things are random .  Is Q based on your high school self ?  Not really .  Actually, I don't think we have anything in common, except that we're both tall .  .  . and vaguely nerdy .  Will Paper Towns ever be a paperback ?  Yes, the paperback will be out at the end of this year, but probably not with either of these covers, so if you want these, you gotta get them now .  Where did you get the idea for the black Santa collection ?  Well, if you read the book, you probably know that it's about how we misimagine other people .   But it's also about how we misimagine our stories .  That's why I wanted Radar's parents to have the world's largest collection of black Santas .  A .  I think it's funny, and B . , I think black Santas do ask us to imagine the world more complexly .  Do you ever find yourself writing directly from experience ?  Very rarely do I directly steal from my own experience, although if you click inside my hands, you will find two occasions where I clearly did .  Would you agree with the opinion that you have written the modern-day Great Gatsby ?  I mean look, there's no question that Paper Towns is concerned with many of the same questions that Gatsby is; Paper Towns is a book that's deeply concerned with whether or not there is such a thing as the self-made man .  Like, is Dr .  Jefferson Jefferson a doctor ?   But yeah, no .  Did you have any alternate titles for Paper Towns ?  Yeah, for a long time I wanted to call it More Light Than Heat, which is taken from the line in Hamlet:  " When a heart's on fire, it gives off more light than heat .  "   And speaking of the Great Gatsby, for a while I wanted to call it Under the Red, the White, and the Blue, which is one of Fitzgerald's alternate titles for Gatsby .  Okay, that's all the questions we have time for .  Nerdfighters, thank you for reading Paper Towns, thank you for responding to it with such thoughtfulness and depth and reminding me of why I love my job, thanks for being awesome .  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow !                 
Good morning, Hank .  it's Sunday February 15th .  Today I'm going to talk about the economic stimulus package but before we get to that, you may be wondering, John, why are you wearing a gigantic bronze medal from the 1994 Alabama state academic decathlon tournament ? Well, I'll tell you, Hank, it is to remind you that while I am not technically an economist, in 1994 I was declared the third best economist among high school students with grade point averages of under 3 . 0 in the state of Alabama . Ok so for the last several decades, the prevailing belief has been that financial markets, when left alone, can correct themselves .  So you'll have some growth and then you'll have a little recession and then some growth and then some recession and then some growth, but on the whole, the curve will go upward .   And it's important to say that recessions aren't inherently evil like recessions aren't fatal diseases, they're just natural corrections that follow periods of what Allan Greenspan once famously called irrational exuberance, which is my favorite kind of exuberance . Hank I know that already, all of the flame-fingered commenters are preparing to write about how I'm either a communist or a tyrant and I don't know what I'm talking about, but if that's the case, how do you explain this guy ?   The prevailing belief among economists has been to let the economy reset itself at a lower number and then begin to grow again .   But then occasionally, the bubble that bursts is so big that the recession that follows becomes a vicious cycle .  Basically people and institutions spend less because they're scared, which causes people and institutions to produce less which causes jobs to get cut which causes people and institutions to spend less because they're scared and have less money and so on and so forth until you have, the great depression . Now Hank obviously we're not in a great depression, I know because I don't have to walk barefoot to school, uphill both ways 12 miles in the snow, and because I don't have to steal tomatoes to survive like nanny and papa did . So when a recession is that bad, what do you do ?  do you let the unregulated free market reset itself to a lower number and then you rocket back to the top ?  some people say yes, but Hank, respectfully, those people are crazy .  There are a bunch of things that you can do, other than nothing .  The thing we're going to try is some Keynesian economics . John Maynard Keynes was probably the most important economist of the 20th century and he explained, that if during the great depression, we had had a sort of massive stimulus bill, like say World War II, we could have come out of the great depression . Now, Keynes has been a little out of favor in the last 30 years, but, look where putting him out of favor got us !  Now, Keynes believed that when you got into one of these spirals, the government needed to go in, lower taxes, and raise spending to create economic activity where the private sector couldn't .  Then when things rebound, you raise taxes back up and cut government spending . Now Hank, I don't know if you know a lot of politicians, but in my experience, very few of them are in favor of both raising taxes and cutting spending, which is one of the big problems in Keynesian economics .  Politicians take it as a sort of blanket excuse to go and spend money and cut taxes and it is extremely unfortunate that we have this gigantic national debt because during all of the last 30 years when the economy was basically growing at a great clip, we were still somehow spending more than we got .   But all of that aside, if we want to avoid that spiral of misery, now is the time when we have to cut taxes and raise spending, which is precisely what the economic stimulus bill the president will sign tomorrow, is designed to do . Ok, so broadly speaking we can divide the $787 billion stimulus bill into three sections . First, $212 billion in tax breaks .  Now instead of giving out lump sum checks like we did in the past, the strategy here is to give people a little bit of money each week, because what we've learned is that when you give people a lump sum check, they don't spend it .  and we need to reset consumer spending . Secondly, $267 billion for social services like food stamps and unemployment benefits . and lastly, $300 billion in new government spending .  which includes everything from like, improving roads and bridges to making all health records in America electronic . Now, anti-Keynesian economists are saying it doesn't matter what you do, no matter how much you spend it's not going to work .  And Keynesian economists almost universally agree that this is not nearly enough spending . Now Hank, the stimulus may or may not work .  I happen to think that we're in for a crap storm no matter what .   But in the professional opinion of this former 11th grade economist, it's not stupid, and it's not pork barrel politics, it's an honest attempt to restart the economy . Hank, thanks for being awesome .  congratulations on having written the greatest song in the history of music about angler fish, and I'll see you on Tuesday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Saturday February fifteenth .  Time for a special bonus video ! Willy, please don't eat the tripod, c'mon .  Willy !  You can't .  .  .  you can't eat the tripod, I'm making a video .  No, no eating the tripod !  Ah, do you just want to be in the video ?  Is that the problem ?  Do you want to be a YouTube celebrity and I'm not doing a good job of letting you ? So Hank today with Willy's help and also with the help of me from the past, I'm going to answer some questions about my new book  " Paper Towns "  that I didn't get to answer in my last video . I'm already boring you ? Q: Are you doing any public appearances soon ? A: Yes and thank you for asking .  On Friday March thirteenth I'm going to be here in Indianapolis, doing a reading as part of a fundraiser for a great organization called  " Second Story " ; you can find out more about that in the sidebar, I believe I'm pointing in the right direction .  And then on Thursday March nineteenth we're going to be in Amsterdam in the Netherlands .  Actually you can't come Willy; I know you're upset about it . That's right Hank I'm going to Amsterdam for the launch of the Dutch version of  " Paper Towns "  !  European nerdfighters if you'd like to come there's going to be an awesome public nerdfighter gathering on Thursday night in Amsterdam, I don't know the details yet, but it would be very helpful if you would sign up- link to do that is in the sidebar . Q: How long did it take you to write  " Paper Towns "  ? A: About three years . Q: You seemed kind of rushed in the end, were you ? A: Yeah, I spent three years writing the book but the end, ten minutes . No I wasn't rushed at the end, but I also didn't want to say everything on the page . Q: Why do you love road trips as they appear in two of your three books ? A: Well first off road trips are fun and secondly they're just a really, really good metaphor . Wait, wait, no licks when I'm trying to talk about metaphor ! Q: Why do you call it  " omnictionary "  and not Wikipedia ? A: A lot of people asked me about this and they seemed to think that I was worried that Wikipedia might sue me, but of course no one in human history has less standing to sue anyone for anything than Wikipedia .  I wasn't worried about that, I had my fancy literary reasons: Omnictionary, you know, contains all of the knowledge . Q: Is the girl on the cover a nerdfighter ? A: I don't know, all I know about her is that she's a nice young woman from Canada . Q: What about other countries ? A: It's out in Australia now, although apparently somewhat hard to find and it's coming out in a bunch of other countries, but it isn't out yet . Q: Either there are  " Brotherhood 2 . 0 "  references in  " Paper Towns "  or there are  " Paper Towns "  references in  " Brotherhood 2 . 0 " , which is it ? A: It's definitely that there are  " Paper Towns "  references in  " Brotherhood 2 . 0 "  .  Many of you spent the last year and a half of the writing and revision of  " Paper Towns "  with me, which meant that inevitably, in the way that friends do, you were going to be exposed to things that I was thinking about and wondering about while I was writing  " Paper Towns "  . Q: You should do more collaborative writing, are you now ?  Soon ?  Please ? A: Yes I am now, soon, please .  My next book that comes out in the spring 2010 is a collaboratively written book with my friend David Levithan . Q: Will you ask Hank about the Carrie Bradshaw punishment ? A: Yeah Hank, the Carrie Bradshaw punishment, you need to do it now, soon, please . Hank, past me, current me and Bubbles the nerdfighting puppy would all like to say best wishes ! Blahhhhh !  !  !  And you'll see me tomorrow .  
Good morning, Hank; it's Sunday, February 22, and today I am going to present you with real, unassailable evidence that oil companies are ripping you off .  .  .  through the evil magic of demon mathematics .  Now, Hank, before we start, I wanna say for the record that just because oil companies are ripping us off does not mean that gas is too expensive .  In fact, Hank, even at the very height of the 2008 oil bubble, a gallon of gasoline was still less expensive than a gallon of Fierce Grape Gatorade .  Which strikes me as just a little bit odd, since oil must be mined from the depths of the earth, shipped across the world, then refined, then trucked to a gas station and sunk into a gigantic underground container .  .  .  whereas to produce Fierce Grape Gatorade, I believe all you have to do is milk purple alligators .   But all that said, I've never been able to shake the suspicion that oil companies were ripping me off, and it turns out I am totally right !  Okay, Hank, so I believe you and I both have the same third-grade teacher, Miss Fink, and so you may remember when Miss Fink taught us the rules of rounding; you know, if you're rounding to the nearest whole number, 4 . 6 becomes 5, 4 . 4 becomes 4, et cetera .  Miss Fink, of course, taught us that you round 1 to 4 down and 5 to 9 up .  .  .  well, Hank, it turns out that Miss Fink was a dirty liar in cahoots with Big Oil .  Because if you round 1 to 4 down and 5 to 9 up, you end up rounding down four-ninths of the time and rounding up five-ninths of the time .  There is, actually, a fair system of rounding called Dutch rounding, in which you round 1 to 4 down, 6 to 9 up, and then you round 5 up or down based on the numbers around it .   But when it comes to the fractional pennies in your gasoline purchases, you will never guess which system of rounding the oil companies use .  .  .  unless you guessed that they use the one that gets them the extra penny one-twentieth of the time .  That's right, Hank, 5% of American gasoline purchases are charged an extra penny because of stupid, unfair, third-grade rounding !  Now I know what you're thinking, Hank; you're thinking .  .  .  say I go to the gas station once a week, that means on average I lose about two-and-a-half pennies per year .  Well, first off, it's not two-and-a-half pennies; according to the oil companies, it's three pennies .   And second off, it's actually millions of dollars every single year .  Hank, the whole  " oil company stealing people's money via rounding "  reminds me of something that Abraham Lincoln once said .  He said,  " You can fool some of the people all the time, and all the people some of the time, but you can't fool all the people all the time "  .  .  .  unless it's a question of math, then you can, in fact, fool all the people all the time .  So, Hank, that's this week's installment of  " Why Mathematics Matters .  "  I did some calculations, and even though I haven't owned a car for a lot of my adult life, Exxon owes me about eight pennies .  So I wrote them a letter explaining the rules of rounding that they've been exploiting for decades and asked for my eight cents back .  I'll let you know how it goes .  Oh, and Hank, you may be wondering why Dutch rounding is called Dutch rounding .  .  .  allow me to read to you from Wikipedia:  " The term 'Dutch rounding' originated during the Dutch Golden Age .  This period of wealth was characterized by opulent feasts where many prominent Dutchmen grew round .  "    Oh, Wikipedia, with your tension between those who would share knowledge and those who would destroy it .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  It's question Tuesday, the day that I answer real question from real Nerdfighter .  That's right, no plural today, just the one question .   " Hi, I'm a fifteen year old girl named Katie .  "  No you're not, you're John Green sitting slightly farther away from the camera .  Right, no, I realize that, but I'm quoting a fifteen year old girl who wrote us an email .  Oh, alright .   " I'm not very popular .  How do I get boys to like me ?  " Thank you for your question, Katie .  Let me begin by acknowledging that I am not an expert in the field of fifteen year old boys .  In fact, Katie, putting aside the question of how to get boys to like you, I don't know how to get boys to like me .  Katie, I don't know if you know this, but all of our videos, except for the ones that feature giraffe sex as the center screen shot are watched by nearly three times more women than men .  So Katie, my first piece of advice to you is that if you want to get boys to like you, you should become a giraffe .   And then have yourself videotaped getting your giraffe freak on . So Katie, from what I can tell, there are about six ways to get fifteen year old boys to like you .  The first way is, of course, to become a giraffe .  The second way is to become World of Warcraft . The third way is to be something called  " hot "  .  Now Katie, I would argue that there are at least two distinct definitions of hot .  There is the, like, normal human definition which is  " that individual seems suitable for mating, "  and then there's the weird culturally-constructed definition of hot, which means  " that individual is malnourished, and has probably had plastic bags inserted into her breasts .  "  Now, boys may find that hot now but I don't think there's anything inherently hot about it; like I think if you went back to the eighteenth century and you asked a fifteen year old boy,  " Would you like to marry a woman who has had plastic bags needlessly inserted into her breasts ?  " , that fifteen year old boy would probably be like  " What's plastic ?  " The fourth way to get a boy to like you is to be yourself .  Now, I'm contractually obligated as an adult to give that advice, even though it doesn't work .   But yeah, be yourself even though no one has any idea what it means to  " be yourself "  .  Like, whose self would I otherwise be being ? The fifth way to get boys to like you is to meet their expectations by acting like you're an idiot .  There's this famous poem by e . e .  Cummings that partly goes  " the best gesture of my brain is less than your eyelids' flutter which says we are for each other .  "   And like nothing against the quality of that lady's eyelid flutter, but why is it that women's eyelids are always fluttering while men's brains are always working ?  So yeah, you can buy into the cultural constructions that young women are supposed to be stupid and awkward and eyelid fluttery, which of course, Katie, is totally easy to do because sometimes you feel stupid and sometimes you feel awkward and sometimes you wanna get all eyelid fluttery .   But the great secret of boys which they are right now denying in the comments of this very YouTube video is that sometimes they feel stupid and sometimes they feel awkward and sometimes they feel all eyelid fluttery !  When you realize that all brains gesture and all eyelids flutter and everybody feels awkward, boys will like you because we will be scared of your knowledge ! The sixth way to get boys to like you: consider different boys .  Katie, I have two words for you: nerd boys .  Katie, I know that nerd boys don't sparkle in the sunshine but they're sensitive, they're caring, they're sweet, they'll do nice stuff for you .  They're a little bit needy, I will grant you that they're a little bit needy . Oh, and lastly, let me explain something briefly to boys: Gentlemen, nerd girls are the world's greatest under-utilized romantic resource .   And guys, do not tell me that nerd girls aren't hot because that shows a Paris Hilton-esque failure to understand hotness . Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .  I'm so excited for song Wednesday, I gotta do a little dance .  Dance dance dance dance closing move !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Sunday, it's news day, and today we're going to learn how an anonymous French girl in the 17th century helped create modern philosophy - with her crossed eyes .     Willy's so excited he got dressed up !   Hank, first I'd like to introduce you to Rene Descartes, or as we know him today, Inigo Montoya .  Often called the father of modern philosophy, Descartes famously wrote,  " I think, therefore I am .  "  He was also a big believer in free will and argued that the mind could control the desires of the body .  A couple other things about Descartes, first of, slackers take note, he believed in never getting up before noon .    And .  .  .  he also had a fetish for cross-eyed women .  Which isn't that much of a surprise, really, Hank, you know the famous axiom: gentlemen prefer blonds; philosophers prefer cross-eyed women .  Now Hank, today Descartes would be totally out of luck, because 99% of the cases of strabismus, which is the technical term for cross-eyedness, are totally fixable .   But back in the 17th century, there were cross-eyed women walking up and down the street everywhere, and Descartes could barely contain himself .  So eventually Rene Descartes realizes that the reason he's hot for cross-eyed girls is because when he was a kid, there was this super-cute made-of-awesome cross-eyed girl he used to play with .  Which strikes me as a little bit odd, Hank, because when I was a little kid I played with a lot of Star Wars figurines, and it's not like I grew up to be an adult with a Star Wars figurine fetish .  .  .  That would be crazy .  You know, if like, when Princess Leia and Han Solo .  .  .  I mean that'd be, huh .  .  .  that'd be nuts .  .  .  I-I'm not, no, no way, that's weird .  Let's talk about something else .   So when Descartes remembered this girl, he was able to connect the memory of his childhood with his current adult desires, all of a sudden his current adult desires went away, showing that the mind can control the body .  So this single insight becomes one of the key linchpins that Descartes uses in his defense of free will in the Principles of Philosophy .  How great is that, Hank ?  I mean, for philosophy .  Obviously for the cross-eyed women of the 17th century, it was a freakin' disaster .  Because here you've got this smart and reasonably successful albeit hideously unattractive dude, and he's totally into you, when, to be frank, a lot of other people aren't because they think that you're marked by the devil, but then bam !  he remembers this girl from childhood and now you've got to write Rene Descartes off your list of potential suitors .  So Hank, that's how a fetish for cross-eyed women can change the history of modern philosophy .   Oh !  I have something important to tell you that I forgot about .  You know Google, the Internet company ?  The company that owns the website that hosts our videos ?    I had to whisper it because if our corporate overlords hear me say it, they might kill me .  Hank, I don't know how to thank the Nerdfighters for this amazing and ridiculous turn of events .   But the way that we generally thank them is by letting them challenge us .  Nerdfighters, this means that Hank and I will do pretty much whatever you tell us to do .  Leave your challenge ideas in comments .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Sunday .  It's news day .   And the big news this week  is that a gas leak led to the explosion of three buildings in Bozeman, Montana .  Oh my gosh, Hank !  When I heard about the explosion, the first thing I thought was ohh, I hope Hank and Katherine are ok .  Maybe someone got so mad about the Truth or Fail subscription box spamming problem that it led to violence .    This in spite of three facts .  1 .  Bozeman, Montana is 202 miles away from your house in Missoula .  2 .  At the time of the explosion, you weren't in your house in Missoula because you were in Florida .  and 3 .  The explosion occurred at 8:19 in the morning .   And Hank, one thing that can incontestably be said about you and 8:19 in the morning is that if there were an explosion that did not involve your bed, you're fine .  So even though you don't live in Bozeman, don't leave the house before 10 o'clock in the morning and are currently situated in Florida, I read this news article with great worry because I associate Montana with you and Kathrine, people I like and don't want to get blown up in a gas explosion .  Meanwhile, at approximately the same time, there's this mutiny going on in the army in Bangladesh, which would have been hilarious for it's incompetence had it not killed so many people and also endangered the fragile government .  Now, Hank, I'd like to say that I was really worried about this mutiny and generally with the political instability in Bangladesh   .   But, Hank, to be perfectly honest, I found myself more worried about a gas explosion in Bozeman, Montana, 200 miles away from your house, then I was about the fragile situation in Bangladesh .  Which makes me hate myself .  What I'm arguing, Hank, is that intimacy leads to empathy .  Clearly I've got some work to do to get it into my caveman brain that people I don't physically know can still be really real .   And it occurs to me that maybe one way to do that is to use the people you already know, like me, to connect you to people that you don't know yet, like people who are poor in Bangladesh .  To that end, Hank, I'd like to announce my half of the pwning Google challenge .  Hank, for every $10 that we raise for the Uncultured Project between now and March 22nd, I will eat one peep on March 23rd .  So for instance, if we raise $1,000, I will eat 100 peeps on March 23rd .  I actually gagged from thinking about it .  That's a lot of peeps .   And then I'll make a video showing you what it's like when someone eats 100 or 200 or, God, please no more, peeps .   And you will laugh because that's the kind of person you are .   And then a few months from now, Shawn will make you a video showing you the school that you built .  The real school that will educate real kids for a really long time .   And then you'll cry .  That's right, Hank, nerdfighting is a full service emotional operation .  We take you to all the possible feelings .  The link to donate is in the sidebar along with more information about what Shawn does .  Hank, you'll see me on Tuesday as I try to set the Question Tuesday world record and I better see you soon dressed up as Carrie Bradshaw if you want to avoid a YouTube mutiny .  I've been working a little bit on my intra-camera dance moves .  I now have *dance, dance, dance, dance, closing move* .  Is that better ?                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday, March 11, three days before I have to turn in the first draft of the Paper Towns screenplay .  So Hank, I was going to try to break the Question Tuesday world record today, but I just don't think I have time .  I've got to get back to writing the screenplay, but the fact that I have no time at all today will not stop me from answering at least some real questions from real Nerdfighters .  Question 1: Where and when is your event in Amsterdam next week ?  It's on Thursday, March 19 at 7:00pm at De Jaren .  Ah, man, how am I ever going to emigrate to the Netherlands when I suck so bad at Dutch ?  Anyway, info in the sidebar .  Anyone near or around Amsterdam should come !  Also, quick reminder: this Friday I'm doing a fundraiser for an awesome charity called the Second Story in Indianapolis .  It's $5 if you're a student, $8 if you aren't .  More info in the sidebar .  Goose1977 asks: How do I get nerd girls to like me ?  I don't know, that's not really my area of expertise .  Hold on, let me get Willy .  Hey, Willy !  Girls love you, Willy .  How do you do it ?  !  Kisses ?  You lick their ears ?  I don't think that's- I don't- at least not at first, I don't think that's the way to get it done, man .  Why do girls like you ?  Is it because you pee a lot, or because you bark in the house, or because you make a lot of weird noises ?  Wait, is it because you're the silent, shy, aloof type ?  Bah !  The silent, shy, aloof type doesn't lick me in the mouth when I'm video blogging !  No, I think I can tell you pretty succinctly why girls like Willy .  It's because he's a puppy .  Guys, my first piece of advice about getting girls to like you: become a puppy .  A kitten would also be acceptable, or possibly a sneezy panda bear .  Goose1977, I've been dumped by a lot of girls, and in the process of acquiring those broken hearts, I learned one important lesson: girls don't like it when you get all creepy-stalkery on them .  See, the problem with guys is that we're needy, but we're taught that we're not allowed to be needy .  So when we get in a situation where we're allowed to be vulnerable, we sort of, like, rip it open and let need flow out, and it's kind of disgusting .  I have this theory that girls, at least girls not named Bella, have this warning system inside their heads, and whenever we get too obsessed with them and focused on them, it's like,  " Beep, beep, beep, beep !  Back away !  Back away !  Beep, beep, beep, beep !  Back away !  "  Which, by the way, is a totally helpful warning system, because no girl, or any other person for that matter, will ever fill up the holes inside of you .  It's like Chinese finger cuffs .  Do you remember Chinese finger cuffs ?  The way to get Chinese finger cuffs off of your fingers is, instead of being panicked and over-eager, just relax .  Oh, and one other thing, guys .  It will be really helpful if you can see girls as people instead of pathways to kissing and/or salvation .  One of the things I've noticed over the years is that if you treat girls like people, although admittedly people who like fart jokes somewhat less than the rest of your friends, they are much more likely to like you .  Question 3: Hank has Song Wednesday, but why don't you ever sing ?  If you watched all of our videos, you'll know that at the end of 2007, I gave The Nerdfighters a gift, and that gift was me not singing anymore .  Question 4: Any new hot YouTubers ?  Oh, there are so many, but recent new favorites include Rransriggs and WheezyWaiter .  They can be checked out in the sidebar .  Nerdfighters, I'm up to 100 Peeps so far, but that's nothing !  Please keep donating !  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow for Song Wednesday, and the next time you'll see me, I'll be happy-dancing in Holland .  DFTBA !                 
Oh, good morning Hank, it's Sunday .  Wait, is it morning ?  Is it Sunday ?  Why am I in the world's smallest bathroom ?  Sorry Hank, I just got to Holland and I haven't slept in thirty-four hours and I don't know what's going on .  Oh, reminder !  There's an Amsterdam Nerdfighter Gathering Thursday night at seven o'clock De Jaren .  More info in the .  .  .  Side bar .  Wherever that is .  .  .  Too tired .  Okay, now I have to make a video about genocide, which isn't funny .  Sorry .  Hank, this year marks the fifteenth anniversary of the Rwanda genocide .  I'm not really gonna talk about the the genocide or what happened but Nerdfighters, if you wanna know about it you should go read the first book that Hank and I read for the Brotherhood 2 . 0 book club:  " We Wish to Inform You that Tomorrow We Will Be Killed with Our Families "  a book that is literally as good as its title is long .   But I do wanna say two things about genocide .  First, Hank, I recognize that everyone is opposed to genocide .  It's like being opposed to childhood cancer .  .  .  Or unicorns .  Being opposed to genocide is obvious; it's uncomplicated, and it's easy .   And the second thing I wanna say about genocide is that even though being opposed to it is obvious and easy ?  It's still important .  Hank, obviously there's a lot to lament about what happened in Rwanda fifteen years ago .   But lately I find myself thinking a lot about the abandonment that was involved .  Hank, fifteen years ago the US, the UN, and Europe got almost all of our people out of Rwanda unharmed .   And the hundreds of thousands of people who were killed were left to conclude that they weren't our people; that they were a them .   And so, Hank, fifteen years later it seems to me very valuable to say to the people of Rwanda: you are not them; you are us .   And in our shared regret and sorrow we acknowledge the immensity of your loss and we share your hope for the future of your country .   And Hank, as it happens, we have a super amazing opportunity to do this !  Nerdfighteria, in alliance with the Harry Potter Alliance .  .  .  Can you have an alliance with an Alliance ?  Is going to come together to make tons and tons of videos for the people of Rwanda .  All of the videos we make are going to go on the website candlesforrwanda . org .   And a few of them will be played in Rwanda at a huge ceremony on April 7th .   And now Hank, in the world's smallest hotel bathroom, I am going to show you and the Nerdfighters how to make your video for Rwanda .  Step One: get a candle .  I don't have a candle, but I do have this television remote control .  Pretend this is a candle .  Don't use a television remote control; use an actual candle .  Also, remember .  .  .  Fire safety .  Step Two: videotape yourself saying some variation of  " My name is John, I'm twenty-six years old, I'm from the United States, and I'm lighting a Candle of Hope for Rwanda .  "  Then silently hold your candle for five to ten seconds .  Step Three: send your videos via yousendit to videos@thehpalliance . org, link in the side bar .  Hank, I hope that you and lots of Nerdfighters will light a candle for Rwanda and send your video in .  I know that I'm going to, just as soon as I have a candle that's .  .  .  That's not a remote control .  Hank, I'll see you on Tuesday; Nerdfighters, I'll see many of you in Amsterdam on Thursday, and I promise to make an Amsterdam-y video by the end of the week .  DFTBA !                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Sunday .  Yesterday I went to the doctor because I have a bad case of tiny chicken disease, so bad that nothing's coming out of my nose because the chickens have blocked my sinus passages .   And the doctor put me on an antibiotic and steroids .  I don't know why he prescribed me steroids but I think it's so I can get really strong so I can punch myself in the face and then go in and dig out the tiny chickens myself .  So anyway, when he was talking about the steroids he said that because it raises my blood sugar level there's one thing that's really important, which is that I can not eat any big sugary meals .   And I was like  " Well, can I eat 102 small sugary meals ?  "   And he said no .  So, the Peeps eating is going to have to wait .   But I will do it, uh, provided that the doctor eventually says it's okay .  Now, Hank, I know that you might be disappointed by this news, but I don't know where you get off, since for like six months you've owed us one dressing up as Carrie Bradshaw .   And you won't do it, and I think I speak for all the Nerdfighters when I say we're mad .  Now, Hank, for the last several weeks on the Ning there have been a series of discussions about boycotting your videos until you do the Carrie Bradshaw punishment .  Until now, I have stayed silent because you are my brother and I lo- like you .   But I can stay silent no longer .  Hank, dress up as Carrie Bradshaw !  I'm sick and it will make me laugh .  Willy's mad about it too, Hank .  Until I see you dress up as Carrie Bradshaw in a thumbnail for one of your videos, I'm boycotting .  Hey hey !  Ho ho !  Into a skirt Hank's gotta go !  Hey hey !  Ho ho !  Into a skirt Hank's gotta go !  Hank Green won't get our views until he wears high heeled shoes !  Hank Green won't get our views until he wears high heeled shoes !  That was the most walking I've done all day and I didn't enjoy it .  Hank, I'm gonna go back to bed in a minute, but before I do I want to share with you some of my favorite non don't forget to be awesome DFTBA acronyms !  Did four teletubbies blind America ?  Decepticons feared the brilliant Autobots .  Drink fruity Tang before alcohol .  Don't forget that bunnies attack !  Hank, here's one for your seventh grade self: Dead frogs teach bored anatomists .  Dorks form the best alliances .  Darling, fetch the battle axe .   And lastly, dude, find the best acronym !  Hank, it occurs to me that some of those would look pretty good illustrated .  Nerdfighters, if you like, upload illustrations of your favorite DFTBA acronym to the Ning .  Ugghhh, okay I'm gonna go back to bed .  Hank, I'll see you on Tuesday .                 
Good morning, Hank; it's Sunday; it's news day .   And I'm in an airport !  Yay ! So Hank, a couple days ago, I was talking to a nerdfighter named Naomi and she said that we should bring back the Evil Baby Orphanage and I was like,  " I don't know, maybe the world doesn't need an Evil Baby Orphanage, "  and then North Korea launched a long-range missile into the ocean .  Hank, it's time to bring back the Evil Baby Orphanage . So, as you know the Evil Baby Orphanage is a fairly straightforward idea that was invented almost two years ago by a nerdfighter named Brooke as a way of resolving an argument that nerdfighters were having over whether or not we should go back in time and kill the evil baby Hitler . Brooke came up with a compromise solution in which we would go back in time, kidnap evil baby Hitler, and then take him to the Evil Baby Orphanage, which would be a school designed explicitly for evil babies in, like, Tibet or something . Well, Hank, I don't need to tell you how good an idea the Evil Baby Orphanage is .  The problem, in the end, wasn't that we found it difficult to build a time machine; the problem was that you and I had a profound disagreement over the nature of time travel paradoxes .  .  .  a disagreement which continues to this day .   But, Hank, I think it's time for us to put aside our petty squabble, because the world needs an Evil Baby Orphanage ! Now, Hank, I know that it's tempting to say that North Korea launching a rocket into the ocean isn't particularly impressive -- I could launch a rocket into the ocean if I wanted to -- but, Hank, there are a couple of important differences between North Korea and me . First off, I'm not run by a crazy, 68-year-old Korean grandmother named Kim Jong-Il .    What's that ?  Really ?  Are you sure ?    Hank, I have some important breaking news: Kim Jong-Il is apparently a dude .  But yeah, so first, I'm not run by a crazy dude, and second, I don't have nuclear weapons .  Even though the launch was what is technically known as an epic fail, the international community is still really mad .  Even China's mad .  It's like when you go completely crazy and all your friends abandon you, except for one friend who kinda stays with you because she's also completely crazy .  .  .  and then finally, she's like,  " Dear, North Korea, I love your totalitarianism and I think you've got an awesome cult of personality, and it's great how you never let people leave your country and you kill your political enemies, but come on .  WTF ?  Best wishes, China .  " Now, Hank, I'm not gonna tell you that we need to get Kim Jong-Il into the Evil Baby Orphanage; he's just a fat, crazy dude .  We need to get his dead dad, Kim Il-Sung, into the Evil Baby Orphanage so that Kim Jong-Il never exists . Getting Kim Il-Sung into the Evil Baby Orphanage would save literally millions of lives and restore Korea to a single, unified country .    What, we'd have to build a time machine ?  That .  .  .  that shouldn't be a challenge; I mean, nerdfighters do everything that we ask them to do .  They ate 317 Peeps for me; you don't think they can build a time machine ?  Get your head out of your ass .   Sorry, Hank, I don't mean to curse, but this guy over here telling me what nerdfighters can't do is really gettin' on my nerves;   I mean, you call me when built a pond sand filter in Bangladesh .   Hank, you'll see me on Tuesday .   The people in the airport think that I'm crazy .  The people in the airport think that I'm crazy .                 
Good morning Hank; it's Sunday, it's news day, and today I'm going to discuss the rumored demise of the 'you' in 'Youtube' .   But first, important messages for nerdfighters in Philadelphia or Australia !  I'm going to be talking and signing copies of my books this Saturday at the Philadelphia Book Festival at 3:30pm, more info in the sidebar - and there's going to be an awesome nerdfightastic nerdfighter gathering on Sunday, May 31st in Melbourne, Australia, featuring me !  Yay !  Australia !  So Hank, you might be wondering why I dressed up for my video today - it's because I'm trying to make us more attractive to advertisers .   But I'm not wearing any pants; you can't make me wear pants, advertisers !  Hank, it's been widely reported that this Thursday, Youtube is going to launch a major redesign of this site that will emphasize professional content over user-generated content .  The reports say that there will now be four tabs: there will be TV, movies, music, and then videos, and then all of the user-generated content will be in that 'videos' tab .   And so the site will begin emphasizing more television shows, and feature-length movies, and music videos, not so much because that's what people want to watch, but because that's what advertisers want to advertise next to .   And of course the entire Youtube community is going to be furious about this - because, well, first, because that's what the Youtube Community does - it gets furious .   And secondly they'll be furious because this new redesign hurts the little guy - but it's strange to me that we think that Youtube has a responsibility to the little guy .  Corporations are not in the business of being awesome - they exist to make money, and according to almost every analyst on Wall Street, Youtube looses money hand over fist !  Because it turns out that tens of millions of people want to watch squirrels water-skiing for free, but it's difficult to monetize those views because Lucky Charms doesn't want to associate their brand with water-skiing squirrels .  Advertisers want to be associated with, like, American Dad, and Bones .  So for the number of views that it takes Youtube to make a dollar, a site like Hulu, that features television shows, can make ten dollars .  So Hank, I find it hard to get mad at Youtube for wanting to stop loosing money .   But I am a little bit mad at advertisers for thinking that user-generated content can't sell Lucky Charms .  I can sell Lucky Charms as well as anybody !  Lucky Charms are like the vampires of breakfast cereal - they're magical, they're delicious, they're a little bit dangerous and bad for you, they initially make you feel great but then over time you realize that maybe your relationship with Lucky Charms is just a little bit unhealthy, and you start to think maybe I don't want to be in a long-term relationship with a breakfast cereal that tastes delicious but damages my health .   But then the Lucky Charms gets all stalker on you, and then for some reason you kinda like that, it makes you feel special, so, yeah, you spend your life with Lucky Charms - that's awesome, that's a great way to get diabetes .  Aaaah, Hank, I can't sell Lucky Charms, it's just not in me !  So Youtubers, if you're gonna get mad, that's okay, but don't get mad at Youtube for wanting to make money - get mad at me for being so bad at selling Lucky Charms !  That said, Hank, there is one reported change coming to Youtube that makes me furious .  Reports are that Youtube will soon have a feature where you can dim all the space like out there, outside of the video screen; and I hate that idea .  What I hate about television is that television is something you watch; what I love about Youtube is that it's not television, it's something that you're called to participate in .  My favorite thing about Youtube isn't even what happens inside of here, my favorite thing is what happens down there !    I was pointing at the comments, and admittedly the quality of discourse in many Youtube video comments leaves a little bit to be desired .   But for our community, at least, the comments and video responses are a huge portion of what goes on in these videos .   And I hate the idea of making it possible to dim the screen around you so you can pretend you're watching television .  Hank, nerdfighters, you're not watching anything .  Now let's continue this conversation down below .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday, April 14th and today we're gonna talk about a subject close to my heart: the world's largest balls .  Hank you may not know this, but as it happens, I am something of an expert in the field of the world's largest balls .  Because the first draft of my new book Paper Towns was originally devoted in large part to the world's largest balls .  Really .  Close readers will recognize that there's still a small vestige to the world's largest balls stuff in Paper Towns, but not nearly as much as I know and today I am going to tell you everything I know about the world's largest balls .  By the way Hank you will be surprised to learn that to my knowledge, all of the world's largest balls are located in the United States .  It's almost like Americans are obsessed with exceptionalism .   And Balls .  First, the world's largest ball of stamps .  Which is located in Omaha, Nebraska at Boys Town and yes, I've seen it .  In fact Hank, the world's largest ball of stamps was the first world's largest ball I ever saw and I'll never forget my reaction when I finally got there and saw it .   " Man that's a pretty big ball of stamps .  "  So Hank, what happened with the world's largest ball of stamps is that the boys of Boys Town just started taking all the pieces of mail they got and putting the stamps together into a ball, and eventually they had more than four million stamps and a gigantic ball .  Which just goes to show you hank what you can accomplish if you're bored, and orphaned .  Hank, the world's largest rubber band was created by a guy named Joel Waul in Florida .   And who I'm willing to bet is not beloved by his neighbors .  It consists of more than seven hundred thousand rubber bands weighing a total of more than eight thousand pounds .   And it has a name- of course he named it, I mean he spent years of his life making it .  It's called Megaton .  'My name is Megaton !  I am a rubber band ball ! ' Hank, since I know you're curious, I'd like to read you the Aristotle quote on Joel's MySpace .   " First have a definite, clear practical idea, a goal, an objective .  Second, have the necessary means to achieve your ends .  Third, adjust all your means to that end .  "  Although for some reason Joel doesn't go on to quote Aristotle's fourth precept, which is of course, 'Fourth, don't make that end a rubber band ball . ' Hank, the world's largest ball of paint is located in my home state of Indiana, in Alexandria .  The story of the world's largest ball of paint begins in 1977 with a guy named Michael Carmichael .  Did his parents not know what their own last name was when they named him Michael ?  So Michael Carmichael- it's such a fun name to say !  So it's 1977 and Michael Carmichael is staring at a baseball, and he thinks to himself, 'I think I'll paint this baseball . '  And then he kept painting the baseball for thirty years so that it now has tens of thousands of coats .  Okay Hank, just a few others: the world's largest ball of barbed wire is located in Texas, the world's largest ball of popcorn is in Sac City, Iowa, and the world's largest ball of twine is in Cawker City, Kansas .  Unless you don't consider this shape to be a ball, in which case the world's largest ball of twine is either in Branson, Missouri, Darwin, Minnesota, or Wisconsin .  Hank, I don't wanna brag but I've seen all of those balls of twine and take it from me, the one in Darwin, Minnesota is the most impressively ball-like .  By the way I think it's interesting how two of the major balls of twine in America have mailboxes, as if you could send them letters .  Dear Ball of twine, You say something interesting about America, but i could never figure out quite what, so I cut you out of my novel .  Best Wishes, John So Hank, hopefully you now know more than you used to about the worlds largest balls .  I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Sunday .  I've had a little bit of a surreal weekend .  First, I did an event where Peter of Peter, Paul and Mary opened for me .  Then I found out that Ashton Kutcher was following me on Twitter .   And then I saw my friend Mary Fran get married inside an elephant .  So, okay, Hank, in order to process all the surreality, we have to split it up into three parts .  First, Ashton Kutcher .  So Ashton Kutcher and CNN were in a race to be the first Twitter account with one million followers, and Ashton promised that if he won, he would buy $100,000 worth of bed nets to help prevent malaria .   And then he did win, and he did give $100,000 to buy bed nets, and then I said to the nerdfighters who follow me on Twitter as a joke that if they got Ashton Kutcher to follow me, I would give $1,000 to malaria .  I mean, actually, not to malaria .  Like,  " Oh, hey, Malaria .  You are a terrible disease .  You are the scourge of our species .  Here's $1,000 .  "  Yeah, no, I promised I'd give $1,000 against malaria, which I figured was a safe bet because Ashton Kutcher doesn't want to follow me on Twitter .   But once again, I underestimated the power of Nerdfighteria, and, indeed, Ashton Kutcher is following me on Twitter, so I gave $1,000 to buy bed nets .  The second thing: folk legend Peter Yarrow's opening for me at the Philadelphia book festival, also true .  Well, actually, he wasn't really opening for me .  I mean, if he was opening for me, that means that I was opening for a children's band called Trout Fishing in America .  Sadly, I don't have any moving picture evidence of this, Hank, because I forgot to bring my video camera to Philadelphia, but I did have the high-resolution pictograph machine known as my phone, so here you can see an excellent photograph of Peter of Peter, Paul and Mary singing, Puff, the Magic Dragon .  My god, Hank, the quality !  It reminds me of a vlogbrothers video in March of 2007 .   And then straight from the Philadelphia book festival, i drove to Atlantic City, New Jersey, where my friend, Mary Fran, really got married inside of an elephant .  Nerdfighters, if you are considering having a wedding, let me give you two small pieces of advice .  First, make sure you designate a specific wedding guest to bring you stuff you need throughout the evening .  Hank, as you no doubt remember, The Yeti and I's wedding was a magical day of awesome in which she and I both almost died of dehydration because people kept stopping us to congratulate us while we were desperately trying to get water .   And then my second piece of advice would be that if it is at all possible, get married inside of an elephant .  So, yeah, Nerdfighters, if you want Hank and I to come to your wedding, put it in an elephant .  Hank, you might have noticed that this Sunday video does't contain a lot of what would technically be called news, but that's because I'm going to do two special evil baby orphanage-related news videos this weekend .  Also, you might have noticed that I never ate the 317 Peeps that I promised to eat .  That's because after a series of visits to the doctor, it turns out that I can't eat even one Peep without further testing .   But, Nerdfighters, I want to make it up to you by doing 317 of something, so leave me suggestions in comments for things that I could do 317 times in a single day that would make you laugh .  Hank, as these homemade argyle socks a Nerdfighter made me remind us, don't forget to be awesome !                 
Good morning, Hank !  It's Tuesday .  It's question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real Nerdfighters !  Q: Are you really coming to Melbourne, Australia ? A: Yes, there will be an awesome Nerdfighter gathering beginning at 2 PM in Melbourne on May 31st to promote this: The Australian edition of my new book,  " Paper Towns .  "  If you want to come, and I sincerely hope you do, you can book your spot and find out more information in the sidebar . Q: What is a Nerdfighter ? A: Hank, sometimes it's like people haven't devoted the 24 hours necessary to watch all 465 of our videos .  Nerdfighters are just like regular people, except instead of being made out of bones and tissues and organs and et cetera, they're made out of awesome . Q: Is there some kind of initiation process for joining Nerdfighters ? A: Oh, just a small one: You have to ride a puppy-sized elephant around the circumference of Winner, South Dakota while holding  " An Abundance of Katherines "  in your pants on your head .  All of those jokes and more will make sense if you just watch all of our videos .   But seriously, if you wanna be a Nerdfighter, you are one . Q: So is this just, like, communication between two guys and then people were interested so they subscribed ? A: It is, in fact, just like that, yes . Q: What does DFTBA mean ? A: Dinosaurs Failed To Beat Asteroid . Q: Who was your worst girlfriend ? A: Probably the one who kissed like a lion .  The first time we kissed I was all like  .  .  .  and she was like   and then I was like  " Ow, my face .  You ate-ed it .  " Q: What is the meaning of life ? A: Mostly listening, some jokes . Q: Why do the brilliant always die young ? A: Actually, the brilliant die at all ages .  Einstein was 76, but we romanticize the young ones . Q: What's your favorite poem ? A: All my favorite poems are too long to recite in a Question Tuesday video, except for the last poem John Keats ever wrote which was also his Last Will and Testament: One line of perfect iambic pentameter: " My chest of books divide amongst my friends .  " Q: Why do guys get obsessed to the point of creepy-stalkerism ? A: Well, they get really fixated on the idea that your affection is what stands between them and happiness .   But the thing is that no single person ever stands between you and happiness, and fixation is not the same thing as love . Q: Is your Puff an homage to Edward Cullen ? A: No, you don't choose the Puff .  The Puff chooses you . Q: Is your Puff up-to-date on its shots ? A: Ha, ha, ha .  Is your joke up-to-date on its .  .  .  funniness ?   .  .  .  Moooommm, they made a hair joke that hurt my feelings ! Q: How do I get Maureen Johnson to like me ? A: Well, you can either buy her new book,  " Sweet Scarlet " , which is brilliant, and comes out in paperback in a few short days, or you can become a puppy . Willy Green, consistently baffled by the puppy in the mirror . Q: Wait, your book  " Paper Towns "  is being turned into a movie ? A: Yeah, maybe .  The people who made  " Juno "  optioned the rights to it with me writing the screenplay, so, I'm working on that, now . Q: How many of your exes are named Katherine ? A: Zero . Q: Is Hank gonna make a 2nd CD ? A: I hope so, but in the meantime, why don't you buy his first CD ?  Link in the sidebar !  In fact, if you buy it in the next week, I will email you a special secret bonus video . Q: Why do you talk so fast ? A: Too many words, too little time . Q: What does it take for me to get my question on Question Tuesday ? A: Perseverance !   And brevity ! Q: What language do Peeps speak ? A: PEEP ! Q: Is it possible to die of Peep Poisoning ? A: According to my physician, yes . Q: What if the Peeps rise up and revolt as a result of the Peep genocide caused by Nerdfighters ? A: That is, in fact, exactly how my doctor told me that Peeps could kill me . Q: Are you wearing pants ? A: Wudda ya mean,  " Am I wearing pants ?  "  Of course I'm wearing pants .   .  .  .  Do jammie pants count ? Q: What happened to your superpower nerd-glasses ? A: Umm, it's kind of a long story, but it ends with me falling face-first into the Baltic Sea and breaking them . Q: If the internet exploded, what other projects would you like to work on ? A: Well, the first project I would work on would be called  " Fixing the Internet .  " Q: Hold on: Who the eff is Hank ? A: Hank is a breed of dog known for its distinctive white coat .  Hank was originally bred to dig out foxholes, but these days, Hank is known primarily for being adorable, licky, and for urinating in inappropriate places . Q: Did I just see a Westie ? A: No, you just saw a Hank . Q: Why don't you blink ? A: Well, if you've been watching Brotherhood 2 . 0 from the beginning, you know that in March of 2007 I had to go to the hospital for an eye infection .  As a result of that infection, they installed robot eyes . Q: Do you still need more questions ? A: Yes, please leave them in comments . Hank, I'll see you, singing, tomorrow .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Saturday !  Saturday ?  Saturday ! That's right Hank, it's that rarest of flowers, a Saturday Brotherhood 2 . 0 video ! -intro- And not only is it Saturday, but it's also question Tuesday !  The day that I answer real questions from real nerdfighters ! Q: I wanna meet you ! A: That's not a question, but I'm still happy to provide an answer .  You can meet me this Monday, like the day after tomorrow, at the Elizabeth Public Library in Elizabeth, New Jersey at 4 pm !  Or if it's more convenient to you, I'll also be in Sydney, Australia at 7pm on June 3rd, more info in the side bar ! Q: Do you have upper body strength ? A:   Yeah only like a ton of it !  Even though that ottoman was hollow, I'm still sweating a little . Q: How's life ? A: Good, thanks !  Just answering some questions . Q: What's your favorite color of peep ? A: One of my problem with peeps is that they don't change flavor when they change color .   And I've always believed that flavor and color should be correlated .  I have the same problem with M&M's . Q: How do I get my YouTube videos to load faster ? A: Well, it's helpful if you travel very close to the speed of light while your uploading . NERD JOKES !  NERD JOKES !  NERD JOKES ! Q: Are you going to answer this question ? A: No .  Absolutely n .  .  .  SNOOD !  I just answered it ! Q: Why do your questions get louder as you go ? A: Because I'm hurrying trying to fit in all the questions ! Q: Who created the original DFTBA acronym ? A: My friend Katie Els . Q:Why won't you accept my Facebook friend request ? A: I'm really sorry, but Facebook won't let me have anymore friends !  Seriously ! Q: Zebras or monkeys ? A: I'll tell you one thing !  I prefer Zebra- monkeys to Monkey- zebras . Q: Will you go to prom with me ? A: No, but I am happy to ask someone on your behalf ! Q: Favorite Mountain Goat song ? A: Up the Wolves . Q: Was Hank's book any good ? A: ACK !  I still haven't read it ! Q: Have you lost weight ? A: Don't be mean . Q: Favorite joke ? A: Billy was a chemist's son but Billy is no more !  What he thought was H2O was H2SO4 .  Hey ! Q: What's your Wii tennis score ? A: 2399 . Q: Favorite punctuation ? A: Interrobang ?  ! Q: John, Will the world end in 2012 ? A: Oh come on, eschatological anxiety was so 1999 . Q: What's your favorite part about libraries ? A: Free books !  Also, secret super hero librarians ! Q: How do you get a nerdfighter to notice that you romantically like him ? A: I find that the best way is to say,  " Nerdfighter .  I romantically like you .  " Q: Has your opinion on Zombies vs Unicorns changed since 2007 ? A:   Only in the sense that I hate unicorns more than ever . Q: Do you think anyone actually reads books anymore ? A: I don't just think it, I have like extensive empirical evidence that people still read books . Q: Is it okay if I teach your happy dance during my aerobics class ? A: Well, first off, I don't think that happy dances can be copyrighted .   And second off,  That was not just an exclamation of happiness, but also permission to use my happy dance in your aerobics class . Hank, thanks for the truly made of awesome song this week . Nerdfighters, thanks for all of your questions !  If you've got more leave them in comments !  And Hank, you'll see me tomorrow !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Sunday, it's news day . I don't know if this is true for you, but for me at any one time I'm able to follow about six news stories, so right now I've got the economic crisis, I've got Iraq, I've got Pakistan, and then I've got the Craig's List Killer, and then 5th I have a pretty good handle on North Korea, and then lastly, of course, I have been closely following the breakup of Lindsey Lohan and Samantha I-don't-know-your-last-name-and-wish-I-didn't-know-your-first-name . So admittedly Hank, six news stories isn't a lot, but I feel like a pretty well-informed citizen .   But then along comes a news story like Sri Lanka, and I'm like,  " Oh, there's been a civil war going on ?  Oh, for thirty years ?  " Now Hank, I'm not here to yell at people about not paying attention to the extremely serious situation in Sri Lanka because it's not your fault for not paying attention to it because it's complicated, and no one has ever explained it to you while rubbing creamy peanut butter on his face . Yes Hank, I know how to get people to pay attention to serious international news stories--peanut butter face ! Okay Hank, so pop quiz: What religion are the people who invented both contemporary suicide bombings and the suicide vest ?  That's right Hank, they're Hindus .  Also, some are Christian, um, and they're not terribly religious .  I am referring of course to the Tamil Tigers, the separatist group currently in Sri Lanka getting the crap bombed out of them by the Sri Lankan government .  I don't know why I'm applying the peanut butter only to the places where I would shave . So Hank, to understand the Tamil Tigers, we actually have to go back to 1956 .  Sri Lanka had just gained its independence a few years before, and the majority Buddhist Sinhalese ethnic group decided that Sinhalese should be the only language in all of Sri Lanka, and that Buddhism should be the official religion . Well Hank, I'm sure I don't need to tell you how the Tamil minority felt about that happening .  They didn't like it .  So these tensions simmer for decades, and finally in 1983 war breaks out .  A group called the Tamil Tigers is fighting for an independent Tamil state in the northern east of Sri Lanka while the Sri Lankan government is fighting to keep the island a single country .  And it's a difficult thing, Hank, because you can't have every single ethnic group that wants its own country having its own country .  On the other hand, the government has never treated the Tamil people equally or fairly in Sri Lanka .  Over the years, the war has killed more than 80,000 people, and there are really no good guys in this war . The Sri Lankan government is inarguably to blame for the disappearance of many Tamils, and the Tamil Tigers, aside from being a terrorist organization according to a long list of countries, are also famous not only for their suicide bombings, but also for their recruitment of child soldiers . In 2002, after almost twenty years of this on again-off again civil war, the Sri Lankan government and the Tamil Tigers finally signed a cease fire, and everyone was so relieved and so excited and there was some thought that eventually, like, the Tamil majority part of Sri Lanka might have some measure of autonomy .   But then in the beginning of this year the war erupted again, and now the Tamil Tigers are on the run and they control very little territory, and the Sri Lankan government has them surrounded and is basically just trying to pound them into submission .   But as is the nature of rebel groups, particularly like ones that are suicidally bent on independence, there's not really any  " winning "  .  But Hank, the worst part of the story is that in the last three months, the UN estimates that more than 6,000 civilians have been killed either by the government or by the Tamil Tigers .  And Hank, when there are no obvious candidates for the evil baby orphanage, it's really easy for the international community just to get bored and stop watching .  We like to follow news stories that make sense, and when news stories ask us to think hard and make difficult judgments about ambiguous situations, we tend to, y'know, only pay attention to them when someone is slathered in peanut better which, by the way, if you are wondering, is really uncomfortable .  My face wants to sweat, but it can't ! So Hank, that's my peanut-butter-faced introduction to the civil war currently raging in Sri Lanka .  Let's hope for an immediate cease fire so we can have these insanely complicated political discussions without killing thousands of people . Just a few seconds, just a--aw . Hank, when Willie sleeps, he dreams of a world in which all people have peanut butter face .                 
Good morning Hank and good morning nerdfighters .  I bet you have two questions:  " John, first, why is this being recorded on your iSight camera and, two, why are your puff levels so high ?  "  Those questions actually both have the same answer which is that I've spent the last hour and a half walking around downtown Minneapolis desperately looking for a place that sells the little cable that takes the information from inside of my camcorder and puts it inside of the computer .  Unfortunately, for some reason, Minneapolis seems to think that Sunday is holy so I have not been able to get one .  This means that my proper Sunday video will not come out until tomorrow, but in the mean time I have to tell you guys something very important - Hank, stop watching this right now .  I mean it, dude - which is that Hank's birthday is on Tuesday .  This Tuesday .  I'm getting him something that I think is pretty nice, but I wanted to let you guys know so that you could have time to get him something, too, like, I dunno what you want to get him .  Maybe you want to do him the honor of buying his CD, link in the sidebar .  Maybe you want to bake him a Hank cake .  Or maybe you just want to use the magic of YouTube to wish him a happy birthday .   But, anyway, particularly since my video is going to be late I wanted to let you know that Hank's birthday is indeed on Tuesday and that you should indeed, like, if you have time and energy and you love Hank as much as - like Hank as much as I do, then you should get him something !  My video will be up tomorrow .  Sorry .  You can vote as to whether or not I should be punished in comments, but I swear I looked really hard for a Firewire cable .  DFTBA !                 
Good morning, Hank; it's Sunday, May 3 -- two days before your birthday -- and as you can tell from the grey, speckled wall behind me, I'm in an airport !  Fancy that .  So, Hank, today I'm gonna talk about swine flu .  .  .  panic !   But before I do that, I wanna talk about me .  .  .  and you .  Mostly me .  Nerdfighters, if you wanted to go to the event in Melbourne, Australia, but you couldn't get a ticket, good news: There's a second event; link in the sidebar .   And also, I'm going to be in Sydney on June 3 .  Secondly, Hank, as you know, on Thursday night my book,  " Paper Towns " , won an Edgar Award .  .  .  an award given out by the Mystery Writers of America to the best mystery novels of the year .  Hank, this means that I now own a bust of Edgar Allan Poe .  That's right: I own a bust .  So nerdfighters, I need your help, please answer the following question for me in comments: What can you do with a bust of Edgar Allan Poe ?    What can you do with a Poe bust ?    Oh, and Hank, about you .  .  .  your birthday is on Tuesday, uh, I'm gonna get you a little something .  Hopefully, nerdfighters, you'll make some videos and do some stuff as well ?    So, Hank, here's a little-known fact about me: I am somewhat terrified of new and strange diseases .  I think it's because, when I was in college, I had to fulfill a science requirement, so I took a class called  " AIDS, Ebola, and Emerging Viruses "  because it was purportedly easy .   And it was kind of easy, but the downside was that I learned about AIDS, Ebola, and emerging viruses .  .  .  which are just not topics that hypochondriacs should be exposed to .  Anyway, Hank, you could imagine my dismay when the news broke about H1N1 flu or  " swine flu "  or  " Oinkbarf "  .  I think  " Oinkbarf "  is its technical name .  Here was this flu in Mexico, traveling easily between people, killing 10% of its victims, most of whom were between 25 and 45 .  Hank, I find it alarming when people between 25 and 45 die of flu first off, because that's the same thing that happened during the Pandemic of 1918, which killed more people than all of World War II; and secondly, because, Hank, I don't know if you've noticed this, but it so happens that I am between 25 and 45 .  So, of course, I was extremely alarmed .  .  .  but then, since then, it turns out that people may have been slightly overreacting .  Uh, for instance, it appears that Oinkbarf does not kill 10% of its victims, but closer to 1% .   And also, it appears to kill not just those between 25 and 45, but you know, just .  .  .  people generally .  Now, Hank, I'm not gonna lie to you; I'm still a little bit terrified of Oinkbarf .  In fact, that's probably why I'm calling it  " Oinkbarf .  "   But what interests me is why we're all so afraid of it .  I mean, obviously, there's the fact that if 10% of people who got it actually required hospitalization, we would, like, run out of hospital beds in short order and everyone would freak out .   But my suspicion is that our fear of pandemic goes deeper than that .  What pandemic forces us to think about is the fact that not only am I going to die, and you're going to die, but everyone's going to die .   And, in fact, there will come a time when there are no human beings left to remember that there were ever human beings .  .  .  which is, I am willing to acknowledge, a little bit alarming .  Hank, F Scott Fitzgerald famously wrote that  "  The test of a first-rate intelligence is the ability to hold two opposing ideas in the mind at the same time .  "  In that same essay, he wrote,  " I must hold in balance the sense of the futility of effort and the sense of the necessity to struggle .  "   But, in general, the way that we respond to the futility of effort is by, you know, ignoring it .  So I just don't think about the fact that someday, no one will read Shakespeare, let alone my books .  .  .  even though it is an Edgar Award winner .  I don't think pandemics make us afraid of death; I think they make us afraid of oblivion .  They force us to grapple with the futility of effort .  Also, they make us barf, which isn't fun, either .  Hank, nerdfighters: Wash your hands, cover your coughs, and find a way to hold in balance the futility of effort with the necessity to struggle .  Hank, I, for one, am gonna keep struggling on; ergo, you'll see me on Tuesday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Sunday . Hank, as you know, last week my book Paper Towns won an Edgar award, an award given out by the Mystery Writers of America to the best mystery novels of the year .  Hank, this means that I am now the proud owner of a bust of Edgar Allan Poe, which begs a question:What could you do with a Poe Bust ? You could put 'em on your head ! What could you do with a Poe Bust ? You could dress him up as a sailor .  .  .  No .  .  .  No you can't actually .  He's already dressed up as a sailor . What could you do with a Poe Bust ? You could play Wii with him !  Oh, you just got EdgarAllanPWND ! What could you do with a Poe Bust ? You could replace your face !  My, Edgar, what lovely puff you have . What could you do with a Poe Bust ? You could make him wear sunglasses !  Honestly in terms of face-to-sunglasses ratio, Edgar looks more normal right now than your average Olsen twin . What could you do with a Poe Bust ? You could play dress-up with a bust of Edgar Allan Poe . What could you do with a Poe Bust ? You could put it on your shoulder and see if it'll say  " nevermore .  "  " Nevermore !  " Doh !  Wow !  It talks !  Edgar Allan Poe you have a funny voice . What could you do with a Poe Bust ? You could waterboard him .  I'm going to ask you one last time, Edgar .  What does the raven symbolize ?  Oh, you're not gonna talk ?  You're not gonna talk !  ?  Now you're gonna talk ! What could you do with a Poe Bust ? You could use a Poe Bust as fitness equipment ! What could you do with a Poe Bust ? He could be your garden gnome ! What could you do with a Poe Bust ? Actually I think I'll just keep him on the mantel . Oh PS: Australian Nerdfighters, look in the sidebar for some information about some upcoming events with John .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Sunday .  It's News Day .  Today we're gonna talk about superstitious generals, Mormons, long-distance swimming, and the Nobel Peace Prize .  Can you guess the country to which I'm referring ?  Can ya ?  Can ya ?  I'll give you the entire intro to come up with your answer .  That's right, Hank, Burma !  Okay, Hank, first a quick background of Burmese history, including a justification of why I'm saying  " Burma "  and not  " Myanmar "  .  Burma is a nation in Southeast Asia bordering Thailand, China and India .  Burma was a British colony, then it gained its independence in 1948, and then from 1948 to 1962 it had a kind of British-style democracy .   And it was the wealthiest nation in Southeast Asia .   And then in 1962 there was a military coup and Burma got overtaken by crazy people .  Hank, have you ever noticed that what happens after the words,  " there was a military coup, "  is generally pretty bad ?  I wonder if there's any way we could get a memo out to, you know, like, military's, explaining to them that  " couping "  is bad .  So now, after 47 years of military rule, Burma is one of the poorest and most oppressive places in the world .  Okay, so in 1989 the crazy military rulers of Burma decided that they were going to rename the country  " Myanmar "  .   And now lots of people refer to it as Myanmar, but I don't .  Because if there were a military coup in the United States of America and our new military rulers announced that the new name of our country was going to be  " the Democratic Socialist Republic of Poopyface Funnypants, "  I wouldn't want people to call my homeland  " Poopyface Funnypants "  .  So anyway, that's why I call it Burma .  So the original crazy Burmese general was a guy named Ne Win, who bathed in the blood of dolphins because he thought it would keep him young, and who famously tried to change the Burmese currency from base 10, like all other currencies in the world, to base 9 because 9 was his lucky number .  So for a while, all the currency in Burma was issued in multiples of 9 .  When it finally came time for Ne Win to resign, he decided to do it on the astrologically auspicious date of 8/8/88 .  Immediately after Ne Win resigned in 1988, there were these huge student protests, to which the Burmese government responded by killing more than 10,000 protesters .  One of the leaders of those protests was a made-of-awesome woman named Aung San Suu Kyi, and in 1990 when the military government of Burma finally bowed to international pressure and agreed to have elections, Aung San Suu Kyi won .   And everyone was like,  " This is great !  We're gonna have this awesome lady as our Prime Minister !  "   But the military was like,  " No no no no no, we said that we would have elections, we didn't say we that we would honor the results of those elections .  "  So Hank, the next year Aung San Suu Kyi won the Nobel Peace Prize .   And I'm sure you know what the Burmese government gives you if you win the Nobel Peace Prize: house arrest .  In fact, Hank, Aung San Suu Kyi has been stuck inside of her lakefront house for most of the last 20 years .  Aung San Suu Kyi is seen by the Burmese people in much the same way that Gandhi is seen by the Indian people .  She's so popular that the Burmese generals are scared of killing her .   But, Hank, a condition of her house arrest is that she's not allowed to have foreign visitors .  Enter mentally disturbed Mormon evangelist American, John Yettaw .  Okay, Hank, so earlier this year an American named John Yettaw abandoned his family and flew to Burma .  He then swims across the large lake in front of Aung San Suu Kyi's house and shows up at her doorstep .  Apparently he was almost dead from the swim, so Aung San Suu Kyi, being the compassionate person she is, let him stay for a couple of days and recover .  Then he got caught when he was trying to sneak back out, and now Aung San Suu Kyi has been arrested and faces five years in prison for violating the terms of her house arrest .  So you get arrested and you go to prison because somebody swam to your house ?  How can the government get away with that, Hank ?  One of the answers is that Burma's neighbors refuse to tell them,  " Hey Burma, stop being so crazy .  "  Now obviously it's hard to get a country like China fired up about human rights .   But Burma's other neighbors, specifically India, need to put much more pressure on the Burmese government to really reform .  Otherwise, Burma will never have the opportunity to be led by its Gandhi .  Hank, you'll see me on Tuesday, when Nerdfighters, I will be answering your questions .  Please leave them in comments .  By the way, Australian Nerdfighters, if you wanna see me in Sydney on June 3rd, there's information in the sidebar about how to book your spot .                 
Good Morning Hank, it's Tuesday; it's question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real nerdfighters .  Ohh Hank I only got like an hour to make this video so I gotta do it a little bit Brotherhood 2 . 0 style .  You know, the edits won't be that good, I won't talk that fast, to keep the audience entertained I'm going to use inexplicable champagne poppers .  That hurt my ears . Hank, I've got two problems .  First, I've gotta get ready to go to Leaky Con and then immediately after Leaky Con I gotta go to Australia .   And secondly I've got a ton of work to do on the edits of the book I'm writing with David Levithan .  Generally, Hank, when my floor looks like this, it either means that I'm in an editorial panic, or that Willy has broken into my office .  But, Hank, none of that is going to keep me from answering Nerdfighter questions ! Are you more of a Spock or a Kirk fan ? There is a reason that this is the symbol for Nerdfighteria . I can't do the Nerdfighter hand sign .  Do you have a work-around ? Yes !  A work-around was invented by our secret niece and nephew Natalie and Calvin in Australia, who I'm going to be meeting soon !  If you can't do this, you can just do this . Do conjoined twins get two different social security numbers ? Yes .  Each conjoined twin gets his or her own social security number . Why are there so many blank pages at the back of the hardcover of Looking for Alaska ? Here's an interesting fact: when you print a book, the number of pages has to be a multiple of eight .   And if it's not a multiple of eight, they have to include extra pages so it becomes a multiple of eight .   But I prefer to think it's so you can write little notes to me at the end extolling my brilliance . Can I have what's in the basket behind you ? The only thing that's in the wicker basket behind me is the responsibility of separating my books about Islam from my books about Christianity .  You want that responsibility ?  No offense, but the wicker basket is doing a fantastic job .  Why would I replace it with a human being ? What was your first job ? My first job was working at a warehouse filling semi trucks with boxes of stereo equipment .  It was actually exactly like Tetris, except you had to play in 110 degree heat and all the Tetris pieces weighed thirty pounds . Would you ever release your ongoing story This Is Not Tom to the public ? It's already available to the public for free each week on the internet .  If you're asking if I'm going to publish it as a book, then no . Why do the same books have different covers in different countries ? They don't always but because my publisher is different in each country, they get to design their own cover . How many digits of pi can you recite from memory ? err 3 . 141592 ?  Hey, what's the seventh digit of pi ?  YES !  ! Does Bubbles the Nerdfighting puppy have any magical powers ? Willy, do you have any magical powers ?  Oh my god !  How'd he do that ?  ! Ok, Hank .  I have to go find my magically disappearing dog, but I'll see you singing tomorrow and in real life in a couple days . We call this move the deceased rabbit .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Sunday .  The other day I was in an Apple store and someone walked up to me and the said,  " Are you John Green ?  "   And I was like  " Yes, I am John Green .  "   And the woman said  " I used to watch your videos .  "  Used to ?  !  So, Hank, I don't have a lot of time to film this video 'cause I gotta go to Australia .  By the way, Nerdfighters in Melbourne or Sydney, if you wanna hang out with me and a bunch of other nerdfighters, check out the side bar .   But, Hank, you and I just had two extraordinary days at Leaky Con, a Harry Potter conference .  I was really inspired to spend a couple days with people who care about one another and about making the world more awesome so much and so completely without irony .  Like, sometimes in our hyper-cynical world, we forget that it's ok to get enthusiastic about things .  Also, another thing I like about Harry Potter conferences, when I was at the bar, someone dressed as Dumbledore came up, put his hand on my shoulder and said  " When Dumbledore's here, John Green drinks free .  "  Well, Hank, I don't need to tell you that I've been waiting my whole life for Dumbledore to buy me a drink .   And it happened .  So, Hank, I'm not going to keep talking anymore .  I'm just going to show you some awesome that we experienced at Leaky Con in the form of Wizard Rock .    Oh yeah, Harry Potter .  Debutante's fame tarnished by affairs .  Delano fears to be afraid .  DFTB DFTB DFTBA .  I don't know what you mean when you say, Please explain, what is DFTBA ?  I don't know what you mean when you say, Please explain, what is DFTBA ?      Is there anybody out there who feels alive ?  I said is there anybody out there who feels alive ?     And finally, Hank, I wrote an open letter to the Twilight fandom .  Dear Twilight fandom, Call me when you can rock like that .  Hank, don't forget to be awesome, and the next time I see you, I'll be in Australia .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Sunday .   Today I'm gonna tell you five reasons why I think the presidential election in Iran was fraudulent, but first we have to have an election of our own .  Nerdfighters: The beard, should I keep it or shave it ?  Vote in comments .   Ah, I realize this isn't an important election, but unlike Iran, I will at least adhere to the results .     OK, Hank, so first, two sentences of background on Iran:  Iran is an  " Islamic Republic "  which means that that while the position of President is important, it's not THAT important because ultimately, Iran's domestic and international affairs are always decided by a council of religious leaders, which is lead by the Ayatollah Khamenei .   Every time Iran has a presidential election like, 37,000 moderates try to run for president but they are barred from doing so, which has, historically, often led to low voter turnout because people don't show up to vote for guys they don't like .   OK, Hank, so a couple days ago Iran had a presidential election and, as you may know, the incumbent president of Iran is a guy named Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who, to use a somewhat technical political science term, is a bit of douche-nozzle .   And in this election there were 37,000 moderates who weren't allowed to run, just like usual, but they were also two quazi-reformist candidates including a former prime minister of Iran named Mir-Hossein Mousavi .   So, on election day, a stunning 85% of eligible voters voted and a couple hours after the polls closed, the Interior Ministry announced that Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was winning with 63% of the vote, which, Hank, at least far as I'm concerned, is just a little tiniest bit impossible .  I maintain that Ahmadinejad and possibly Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khamenei stole the election .     Is that a fatwa I smell on me ?   Hank, I'm not saying that this election was invalid because a douche-nozzle happened to win it .  Douche-nozzles win elections all the time, all over the world .  What I'm saying it that there's just a lot of things that don't add up, like number one: Tabriz .  The reformist candidate Mousavi is from a city called Tabriz and historically, the city of Tabriz always votes for Mr .  Mousavi or whoever the guy is from his ethnic group who's running .   And yet, inexplicably, in this election, they apparently voted 2:1 for Ahmadinejad .  I mean, Hank, it's the equivalent of John McCain winning Chicago .   Reason 2: 2005 .  Hank, the last time Iran had a presidential election was in 2005, and even though a ton of people didn't show up at the polls because they were mad about their candidates not being on the ballot, Ahmadinejad, who was less crazy and more popular than he is now, still wasn't able to avoid a runoff, which leads me to reason three: Turnout .   The turnout in this election was ridiculously high by Iranian standards and in the last twenty years, every time there has been high turnout, a reformist candidate has won .  All of the pre-election polls indicated that the only chance Ahmadinejad had was if the turnout was extremely low .   Number 4: Superhuman counting .  Hank, despite the incredibly high turnout, the Interior Ministry managed to announce the election results within, like, two hours of polls closing .  Hank, they counted, like, ten million more ballots thirty times faster than they ever have in the past .  It's almost like they weren't counting them at all .    And, number 5: The possible acknowledgment .  Hank, because the Iranian government has started to kick out foreign journalists and shut down websites it's a little hard to get reliable information, even for people like me, who have spent the entire day reading Iranian Twitters   .   But many people from inside Mousavi's campaign are reporting that the Interior Ministry called him to say that he had won the election shortly before that same Interior Ministry went on TV and announced that Mousavi had, in fact, lost the election .   Hank, we still don't know the whole story about the elections .  It's possible that somehow they weren't rigged, but I do hope that the government if Iran has the decency to honor the will of its people .  As it says in the Qur'an,  " Truly, God does not guide those who transgress and lie .  "   Hank, like I said, I have links in the sidebar to the Twitters of young Iranians who are Tweeting through all of this .  You often hear that nothing interesting can be said in 140 characters .  Obviously the people who say that aren't following the young Iranian woman who just wrote  " If Iran sleeps tonight, it will sleep forever .  "                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Sunday, June 28, 2009, and I'm angry ! Aaah !  So, Hank, as you know, in our two and a half year conversation, we've now uploaded more than 500 videos !  Congratulations, by the way .   And thanks to the awesomeness of nerdfighters, our videos have been watched lots and lots of times .  But not everyone who's watching them is awesome . So, Hank, I'm going to read you some comments that people have posted in the last week on Vlogbrothers' videos .  These are all direct quotes, except for every time they use a curse word, I'm going to use the name of a famous American poet .  " You Walt Whitman-ing Edna St .  Vincent Millay !  Go Emily Dickinson your mom !  "  Thanks for the advice, you pathetic piece of E . E .  Cummings, but I think I'm gonna pass .  " You Robert Frost-ing Nikki Giovanni !  Get a life, nerd !  You're a virgin !  "  Ughhhhhh !  " Hey bro, you need to go outside and get some fresh air into you .  .  . or a girlfriend .  "  I need to get a girlfriend into me ?  I think that shows a fundamental lack of comprehension about how babies are made .  " You are a complete Anne Sexton stupid !  "  Okay, couple things: first off, if you're accusing someone of being stupid, you should probably know that, in that context,  " you're "  is a contraction, and any time you're contracting  " you are " , it's spelled Y-O-U-apostrophe-R-E !  Oh my god, YouTube !  Before you click  " submit comment, "  read your comment and ask yourself,  " DO I MEAN YOU ARE ?  "   And if you do .  .  .  you need an apostrophe ! Secondly, accusing someone else of being stupid implies that you have the intellectual facility to know the difference between stupid and smart -- a case that is not bolstered when you use stupid as a noun !   " This video is so Ralph Waldo Emerson gay !  "  " You're gay !  "  " You're a gay nerd !  "  " Gay !  "  Okay, YouTube .  Apparently, we have to have a talk about this, because you're obsessed with calling things gay .  So, I thought this was pretty widely known, but I guess I have to explain what gay means .  Being gay means that you're attracted to people of the same gender .  So a video can't be gay, because it doesn't have a gender .   Hank, I never thought I would have to do this, but I think I have to explain to YouTube how insults work .  When you're insulting someone, what you want to do is you want to make them feel bad about themselves .  So, you want to paint them with character traits or identities that are bad .  So, for instance Hank, if I wanted to hurt your feelings, I might say that you're a selfish coal-fired power plant .   But to read YouTube comments, you would think that the worst thing in the world to be is not a selfish coal-fired power plant, but a gay, virgin nerd !   We have this weird thing in the world where you don't get insulted for what you do, you get insulted for who you are .   And ultimately, gay will never work as an insult because it's not bad !   So, you want to call me a gay nerd virgin ?  That's fine !  Believe me when I say you are not embarrassing me !  You are embarrassing yourself .   You want to insult me ?  Take a lesson from this guy:  " You look kinda like that guy from Wild Hogs !  lol .  "  What guy from Wild .  .  .  Tim Allen ?  I look like Tim Allen ?  Wow, Hank, that's a burn !   Nerdfighters, on Tuesday, I'm gonna do a Question Tuesday, so please leave great questions in comments ! Hank, I hope you're having fun with Mom and Dad and the Katherine, and you'll see me on Tuesday !                 
Good morning, Hank !  It's Sunday, it's news day, and today the news is that noted Alaskan Governor Sarah Palin has announced her resignation !  Being the expert in Alaskan politics that I am, I am going to tell you four reasons why she may have quit .    Like her or hate her, Sarah Palin is not your usual politician, so let's begin with Possibility One: she resigned for the reasons she cited in her resignation speech, which, by the way, would be almost unprecedented in history of American resignation speech .  Now, in the speech, she said she thought that it was bad for Alaska for her to be the relentless focus of ethics investigations, she said she was frustrated with the media for political blood sport and being cruel to her family, and she also said that she felt that she could help Alaska more from outside the governor's office .   But she didn't cite any of those things as the reason she was quitting .  The reason she cited in the speech was that she had decided not to run for governor in 2012, and that being governor for the rest of her term would be being a  " lame duck "  .  A lot of lame duck politicians don't accomplish much in their last two years in office; ergo, the courageous thing to do is to quit now .   And Hank, that is why in her speech announcing that she was quitting, Governor Palin said that not quitting would be  " a quitter's way out "  .  So the reason she actually cites for quitting in the speech is that not quitting would be quitting .  Although I do want to quickly point out you don't become a lame duck governor until you announce that you're not going to run for re-election, which you don't have to do with eighteen months still remaining in your term, so that reasoning doesn't technically hold up to scrutiny .   Reason Two: she wants to run for president .  This is what a lot of conservative commentators keep saying, but it makes absolutely no sense to me .  I mean she didn't feel compelled to quit her job to run for vice president .  .  .  so why would she quit her job to run for president three years before the election ?    What seems more likely to me is Reason Three, that she wants to make money .  Hank, the job of Governor of Alaska pays $125,000 a year, which isn't nothing .   But no joke, Hank, Sarah Palin could $125,000 in five days on the public speaking circuit .  Now Hank, I've never personally had the opportunity to do five days worth of work and make my entire annual salary, but there's a pretty short list of things I wouldn't be willing to do .  I mean, I can only think of about three things: I wouldn't kill anyone, I wouldn't hurt anyone .  .  .  and I wouldn't get above the third rung of a ladder .  Then of course Hank there's Reason Four, that Governor Palin has some kind of scandal brewing .  Now, Hank, as soon as you say the word  " scandal " , both Palin's supporters and detractors are like BLUHBLUHBLUHBLUHBLUHBLUHBLUH -- they basically become giant squids of anger .  So, supporters of Governor Palin, let me tell you why it looks a little bit suspicious:    Palin told almost no one that was resigning in advance, which she did at a hastily called press conference where she didn't even read prepared remarks .  That has happened before in American politics and every time it's been because of a scandal .  Like, some politician will have a hastily called news conference late in the afternoon at the end of a week and he'll be like  " I am resigning from office to spend more time with my family "  and then like a week later it comes out that they really resigned from office because they owned like a kitten-killing factory in Indonesia .   On the other hand, Sarah Palin has frequently shown herself to be genuine about exactly one thing: she is not your usual politician .  I'm not saying that's a good or a bad thing, I mean, Chewbacca is not your average politician either; I don't want him to be president .  Wait -- yes I do .  In fact, that would be awesome .  Han Solo could be his vice president and chief translator .  .  .  Wow, that idea is really exciting to me; okay, Hank, I gotta go write some Chewbacca-president fanfiction .     I'm going to state my guess about Palin's resignation right now: I think it is Number Four, I think there is some unannounced brewing scandal .   But I've been wrong before and if I'm wrong this time I'll be very happy to admit it .  Hank, I'll see you on Tuesday; in the mean time, Chewy for president 2012 !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Friday July 10th .  You may remember in my last video I offhandedly mentioned that Chewbacca would make a great president and that Han Solo should be his vice president and chief translator .  It turns out that idea had legs .      So Hank there are really only 3 main arguments against Chewbacca becoming president of the United States in 2012 .  Argument 1 is that we already have a suitable president which, you know, fair enough but he's not a Wookiee .  Argument 2, which I find somewhat more compelling, is that Chewbacca is not eligible to become the president of the United States for a bunch of reasons .   Hank, the United States Constitution says that a president has to be a natural born citizen, that he or she has to be at least 35 years old, and must have been a resident of the United States for at least 14 years .  So A) Chewbacca is not a natural born citizen of the United States because he lived a long, long, time ago in a galaxy far, far, away .  B) He is currently deceased as anyone who's read the 1999 Star Wars novel  " Vector Prime "  already knows .   And C) he's a fictional character .   Hank, I'm not going to lie to you .  Being a deceased non-human, non-American, fictional character, does make it hard for you to become president of the United States .   But to the people who would say it's impossible, let me remind you that our Constitution can be amended .  So shut up and let the Wookiee win .   Argument 3 is Chewbacca might not be a good president due to his poor communication skills and kinda general bellicosity .  Which is ridiculous !  Public servants need to be more like Chewbacca; loyal, self-sacrificing, Yoda-saving heroes .   So Hank, after the last video more that 100 nerdfighters commented that they wanted to see a  " Chewie for President 2012 "  t-shirt .  We have designed such a t-shirt and you can buy it at DFTBA . com .  Link over in the sidebar .    But nerdfighters, because we just designed the t-shirt today, it's not going to get to you for like 3 weeks so don't get mad at us .   So yeah if you want the t-shirt, that's great, go get it but uh don't get mad if it doesn't come for a few weeks .  P . S .  Just after I finished making this video, Hank sent me the most awesome  " Chewbacca for President "  song I have ever heard in my life .  We're going to make it a free download that goes with the t-shirt but here's a little snippet of it while you look at the beauty of the shirt Hank designed .      And if the lobbyists try to Line his pockets You know what's gonna happen He'll rip their arms out of their sockeeeeeetss .  .  .  Chewie for Pres-  Hank, thanks for bringing musical life to my stupid ideas .  You'll see me on Sunday .   The shirt won't ship for 3 weeks .  The shirt won't -- it's so close to cursing, like I'm right on the edge of cursing .                 
Good Morning Hank, it's Tuesday and I'm wearing a suit today to try to appeal to advertisers .   But don't worry, I haven't sold out .  You can tell because I'm not wearing any pants .  That wasn't supposed to go like that .    Okay, sorry, I had to change .  It was just so hot and I could feel corporate America constricting me and it was unbearable .   So, Hank, on Sunday I made a video and many Nerdfighters commented that almost all of the ads next to my face and right down here were about either Scientology or mail order brides .   Now, Hank, I wanna clarify something .  We don't want Nerdfighters to become Scientologist mail order brides .  Nor, in fact, do we want them to use the internet to purchase mail order brides .  For one thing, buying a wife on the internet is immoral, and for another thing -- dang it !   Also Hank, this isn't the first time on our videos the advertisements have been hilarious and/or humiliating .  This one, for instance, just seems to be making fun of you .   And I found this one to be a little bit troubling as well .  I mean, first off, Google, I you trying to make my wife worry just because I like dressing up my bust of Edgar Allen Poe ?   And secondly, that ad leads to a website where you can buy a test to find out if your husband is gay .  Now, admittedly, Hank, I haven't purchased this test, so I don't know how great it is, but as a public service I am now going to provide a free identical test .   Question 1: Hey husband, do you like dudes ?  Question 2: Seriously though, do you ?   All right, Hank, let me tell you what I don't think selling out is .  I don't think it's selling out to tell the people who watch our videos that the paperback edition of Paper Towns comes out on September 17th and it looks approximately like this .  Well, I mean not exactly like this .  I mean the book will have, like, stuff in the middle .   I don't even think it would be selling out if I arranged my bookshelves every video to look like that .  Although it would be a little unseemly which is why I don't do it even though my publishers are always asking me to .    And Hank, I don't think it's selling out when you make an awesome CD that you work hard on and then tell people they can buy .  By the way, Hank's album is brilliant and it will change your life, link in the sidebar .   Telling me it's selling out to try to share my books with an audience is like telling Derek Jeter it's selling out when he tries to hit balls hard .  Or telling your mom it's selling out if she hits balls hard .  I guess your mom jokes don't really work when your mom is also my mom .   On the other hand, Hank, I think it would be selling out if we told people or implied to them that they couldn't be made-of-awesome Nerdfighters unless they bought this stuff .   Now, Hank, as you know, we don't do paid product placement in out videos .  Not because we think it's inherently wrong, but because we don't think it's right for us and our audience .  Here's my problem with paid product placement: I may believe that wacky string is the best silly string product on the planet, which I do, and I may tell my friends that when they have silly string needs they should turn to wacky sting, but if wacky string pays me to say that, I'm not saying it because it's true, I'm saying it because they paid me .   On the other hand, we do make money from advertising and from selling t-shirts .   Now obviously, Hank, YouTube can't survive without advertising and as we make this more of our job, we can't survive without advertising, either .  Because, like, I assume no one wants to pay for VlogBrothers videos .  I mean, Hank, you're my brother, and I'm myself, but even I don't want to pay to watch our videos .    But Hank, the Nerdfighter community is so tight knit and so focused on making the world suck less, that I don't want questions about selling out swirling around and pulling us apart .  So, Nerdfighters, in comments please let us know:  Do you a) think that talking about money is just kind of gross and generally trust us not to sell you out ?  Do you b) want to see a fuller and more transparent accounting of what money goes to us and what money goes to charity ?  Or do you c) want to have a kind of shareholder role in the Nerdfighter community where you vote on what our compensation should be ?   And as a bonus question, what do you think the definition of selling out is ?   Nerdfighters, please note that you never have to buy anything to be a Nerdfighter .   And you particularly do not have to buy a wife .  Although it's worth noting just for the public record that if you click on a mail order bride ad and then don't order a bride, the company loses money .   Hank, we've been brothers for 29 years and you've never sold me out, and I appreciate it .  I'll see you tomorrow .   P . S .  Hey Chicagoans, I'm doing a Nerdfighter gathering in your city next Thursday .  More info in the sidebar !                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Sunday, it's news day but instead of doing news today, we're doing PARTS - 4 of 'em .   Part 1 - Chicago .  Nerdfighters if you live in or around Chicago, I will be there this Thursday morning at 11 am for a huge awesome Nerdfighter gathering; tickets are free, it's at the Harold Washington library, more info in the side bar .   Hank, it just occurred to me that I said if you live in Chicago I'm going to be in Chicago on Thursday, implying that if you don't live in Chicago, I will be somewhere else on Thursday, but in fact I'll be in Chicago regardless .  I mean, one of the ways that we are not like electrons is that my position in space is not dependent upon your position in space .  Anyone ?  Electron jokes ?  No ?  Moving on !   Part 2 - My old friend Harry Potter .  Hank, I didn't see the Harry Potter movie on midnight of opening day like you did, but I went to see it last night with the Yeti and we were sitting there like 30 minutes before it started and the theater was filling up and I was like  " I'm so excited about the Harry Potter movie !  I get to see Luna Lovegood and I'm gonna cry at the end !  "   And then I really liked the movie because it was funny but it was also sad and it didn't tell destructive lies about teenage sexuality like some other movies I've seen recently .  .  .  and Ron Weasley has gotten so buff .  .  .  I mean, Hank, the movie was great, but the 30 minutes before the movie started was what I love about being a nerd .  Because nerds like us are allowed to be unironically enthusiastic about stuff .  We don't have to be like,  " oh yeah, that purse is OK, "  or like,  " yeah, I like that band's early stuff .  "  Nerds are allowed to love stuff, like jump-up-and-down-in-the-chair-can't-control-yourself, love it .  Hank, when people call people nerds mostly what they're saying is  " you like stuff "  which is just not a good insult at all, like,  " you are too enthusiastic about the miracle of human consciousness .  "   Speaking of the miracle of human consciousness, Part 3 - Artificial Intelligence .  So Hank, there's this website that a lot of Nerdfighters have been talking about for the last few days .  Basically it's the game 20 questions except instead of playing a person, you're playing an artificial intelligence .  So you think of like an animal or a mineral or a vegetable or a person or a Doctor Who character and then over the course of 20 questions the computer program figures out what you're thinking of  , but when it messes up, it messes up badly .  For instance I tried it with puppy-sized elephants, and a lot of the questions were really difficult to answer, like it asked me if it was a mythical animal, and I was like  " puppy-sized elephants aren't MYTHICAL animals, they're animals in what I consider pre-existence .  "   But I thought I did a fair job of answering all 20 questions and then it guessed - *sigh* - unicorns .  I mean, Hank, I was thinking of puppy-sized elephants, the most outrageously wonderful creature not currently in existence and it guessed unicorns which everyone knows were left off the ark for a reason !  Unicorns !  It's despicable !  Anyway, Hank, I also tried to get the artificial intelligence to guess YOU and I answered all the questions completely honestly .  The only one I struggled with was whether or not you have a substance abuse problem because I had a difficult time deciding whether or not corn dogs constituted a substance .  OK, before I tell you, I want you to close your eyes and I want you to imagine the one guy you most do not want this artificial intelligence to think you are .  OK, Hank, are you ready ?  They guessed you were Perez Hilton !  Gahhhhahahahahahahaha .  .  .   Part 4 - Nerdfighters, do you have any questions about love or romance ?   And by romance, I mean nerd-mance .  If so, leave them in comments .   Hank, I've said it before and I'll say it again, nerd-life is just so much better than regular life .  *cha-chick* Nerdfighters !  Hank, I'll see ya on Tuesday .                 
Hi there !  This is John Green of the vlogbrothers and you're watching the literary edition of Truth or Fail: Youtube's only game show .  Or, at any rate, best game show .  The rules here are simple .  We give you two purported facts and you either click on the truth or you fail .  Today we are going to test your knowledge on things you wish you didn't know about great writers !  Let's get right to it !  Fact 1: the playwright Tennessee Williams choked to death on a bottle cap .  or Fact 2: the poet Edna St .  Vincent Millay died a virgin .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday !  It's question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real Nerdfighters !  Today I'm going to be answering questions about love and romance .  Because, y'know, I'm such an expert in the field .      Q: Why am I so scared of rejection ?  A: Well, 'cause it's scary .   But the important thing to remember is that everyone is afraid of rejection; they just don't seem that way because you're not busy living inside of their thoughts .   Q: How do I know if my boyfriend is about to porpoise ?  A: Ok, the first sign I would look for is that your boyfriend might be spending a lot of time in the water .  In fact, if your boyfriend is about to porpoise, he might feel increasingly uncomfortable on land .  He may also start to look increasingly less human a-and more dolphin shaped, but without the beak .  So yeah, I would say if you notice any of that stuff then your boyfriend is probably gonna porpoise pretty soon .  Oh wait, you probably meant,  " How can tell when my boyfriend's gonna propose ?  "  Mm ?  See why spelling matters ?  The number one way to find out if your boyfriend is gonna propose is to ask him and to talk about it, because it's weird that in our culture for some reason marriage is something thrust upon women .  Like boys get to spend six months deciding if they want to get married, but then the girl only has like ten seconds to say yes or no .   Q: Where are all the nerdy girls ?  A: O-ok, dude, I don't want you to freak out, but they're right here .  Seriously dude, they're like watching us right now .  So yeah, just keep cool, don't let them know that you know that they're here, and uh, just y'know, play it confident .   Q: Is it weird having your first kiss ?  I wanna know because I think I might have my first kiss soon and I don't wanna be too nervous .  A: Ok, first I need to know if you mean like *pwt pwt* kiss or if you mean like *hahg rahg gharh gahr hadgr* kiss .  By the way, that was not intended as a demonstration of proper kissing technique .  Because like the *pwt pwt* kiss, no big whoop .  Nothing to be nervous about .  Though like *ahlhalhalahlha* kiss, I'm gonna level with you, you should be nervous about that .  Listen, it's probably gonna go poorly but if I can give you just one piece of advice: the human tongue is a fantastic organ .  It's great for tasting, without it speech would be impossible, but I would argue that it should not be the primary combatant of any kiss .  You know how the marines always say that they're first to fight ?  The tongue should not be first to kiss .  The tongue is like the Navy SEALS .  Y'know, they're like in and out so fast, you almost didn't even know they were there .   Q: What is the average number of times boys need to be broken up with before they realize that girls don't like needy, clingy boys ?  A: Fifty three .   Q: When two Nerdfighters are in Nerdfighterlike but then they need some time apart, what is that phenomenon called ?  A: Breaking up .   Q: Is it still acceptable to ask someone out by writing them a note in which you ask them to check either yes or no ?  A:  ) Do you think it's still allowed to write a note where you ask someone to check yes or no ?    It was never a good thing .    It totally worked with Jennifer Keene in third grade, so back off .    No, it works, I'm just saying, that it's not, it's never been cool .  It's always the wimp's way .    What do you recommend instead ?    Ask 'em .    With your voice ?    Yeah .    What if it quivers ?   Q: How does a nerd win over a beauty queen ?  A: I dunno, maybe I'd start by offering it peanut butter-flavored treats ?  No wait, that's how you win over a puppy .  I dunno how to win over a beauty queen, I've never tried .   Q: I'm almost 18 and I've never been out on a date or had a boyfriend and I get really shy around guys, is that weird or not weird ?  A: It's not weird, and you might be surprised to learn how not weird it is .   But as far as getting shy around guys goes, it's important to remember that they are, y'know people .  In exactly the same way that girls are people .   Q: Is it still called Nerdfighterlike if one person in the relationship is a Nerdfighter and the other isn't ?  A: No, that's called internerdial dating .   Q: Do guys really not like girls who are smarter than them ?  A: The Venn diagram of guys who don't like smart girls and guys you don't wanna date is a circle .   Q: Is breaking up over text message bad ?  A: Yes .   Q: How do you get over crushing shyness to ask a boy out on a date ?  A: Just ask .  I mean actually, call him right now, before you even finish watching this video .  Just call him and say,  " John Green said I had to call you .  I like you a little bit, I wanna go out on a date, no big whoop !  "   Hank, thanks for being awesome and I'll see you tomorrow !                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Wednesday, and today we're going to talk about Robert Pattinson, fictionality, and Flava Flav .      Okay, briefly, Hank, since you know nothing about popular culture, there's this guy named Robert Pattinson and he plays Edward Cullen in the Twilight movie and he's beautiful .  Also he has a majestic puff and he made puff cool again, so he's kind of my hero .   But I've been thinking recently, what is it that we find so beautiful about Robert Pattinson ?  I mean, aside from his top-notch puff and excellent cheekbones .   And Hank, I would submit to you that while some of Robert Pattinson's beauty is just his pure, natural, God-given good looks, the majority of his beauty is something that we have collectively constructed .  I know this because recently I was listening to an interview with Robert Pattinson, and I was like  " Dude, shut up, you're ruining it .  "   So Hank, I'm gonna come back to R-Pattz, but for the last couple weeks, nerdfighters have been playing a lot of 20Q at 20Q . net, which is this website where you answer 20 questions about a person and this artificial intelligence magically thinks of the person you're thinking of, although not always because recently a nerdfighter sent us an email saying that they had been thinking of Holden Caulfield and 20Q had guessed Flava Flav .  Like, what kind of questions did it ask to confuse Flava Flav and Holden Caulfield ?  Are you male ?  Yes .  Do you wear an accessory that is supposed to be cool but actually just exposes your insecurity ?  Yes .  Do you have any musical talent ?  Doubtful .  Do you have aborted relationships with women who may or may not be prostitutes ?  Yes .  Actually, Hank, the more I think about it, Holden Caulfield and Flava Flav have a lot in common .   Right, so but anyway, there's this website called 20Q . net, and nerdfighters taught the website about you, Hank .   And after that a nerdfighter named Paige Harwood emailed us, and she was like  " You know what would be cool ?  If nerdfighters made someone up and then convinced the artificial intelligence at 20Q . net that that person was real .  "   And, Hank, as someone who's read my new book, Paper Towns, you know that I'm a little bit obsessed about how fictional things can become real .  So I was very excited about Paige's idea .   So a few hundred nerdfighters and I got together in a blogTV room, and we invented DJ Paige Railstone .   And together we invented an identity and a history and a career for DJ Paige Railstone .  Alan created a website, Karen Kavett mashed together some photographs so we'd know what she looked like, and then we made a Twitter and a website and Facebook fan pages, and within two days if you typed  " Paige "  into Google, the first suggestion was Paige Railstone .  Now, Hank, a lot of people have been asking me if Paige Railstone is made up and they've asked whether she's real .  We did make her up, but that doesn't mean she's not real .  Because we also made up Rob Pattinson .   And In fact, insofar as all of our identities are dependent upon the ways other people imagine us, we're all making each other and ourselves up, all the time .  Now, Hank, the 20Q database is still not convinced of Paige Railstone's reality, but at this point I certainly wouldn't put it past the nerdfighters .  So Hank, that's the point of Paige Railstone, is to find out how real made-up people can become .   And also to remind us that we are not innocent bystanders in the world of celebrity .  In the end, Robert Pattinson has us to thank and blame for his beauty .   Anybody interested in Paige Railstone can find out more about her in the sidebar, and feel free to email original music, fan art, album art, whatever, to djrailstone@gmail . com .   And then we'll see over time how real she gets .   But, Hank, she'll never be as real as you -- or, should I say, the set of associations and constructions that we utilize to form our image of Hank-ness .  You'll see me on Sunday .   Bobby Pattinson, you may be nothing but a series of constructions made up by the people who love you, but you're still real in my heart .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Sunday .  It's News Day and the news today is that I'm at cooking school .  Today's video comes to you in four parts .  By the way, it's late, so sorry about the weird positions .  Part 1: Hank, holy snood, we have 100,000 subscribers !  I think we should get the Nerdfighters something, Hank .  Nerdfighters, what do you want ?  Part 2: Cooking school .  I spent the weekend at the Philo Apple Farm with the Yeti and her family and this very nice woman named Tracy and her made-of-awesome son, Sam, and this woman Karen who knows everything about organic and sustainable food .  It was amazing and delicious and sort of life-changing, but unfortunately I can't show you much footage from cooking school because the Yeti is in all of my footage, and if I show any of the Yeti the very foundations of Nerdfighteria will collapse and we'll just become an empire of dust and despair .   But here's approximately what cooking school looked like .  Look, you can see a little Yeti arm over there .  Hello, arm .  There was a lot of chopping, there was a fair amount of blending, there was some separating of eggs .  Bam .  Yolk .  White .  I must be the greatest .  There was some churning of ice cream, and there was some appreciation of oddly shaped potatoes .  It's a hippo !  Look how much it looks like a hippo !  Hank, it's like a little hippo potato .  Look at the little mouse .  Look, it's a mouse !  Immediately after I called that the hippotato, Sam pointed out that it should be called the hippotatomus .  The Philo Apple Farm definitely doesn't forget to be awesome .  Then on the way home we got to see the ocean .  That was pretty .  I could almost set a novel there .  Part 3: the 2009 Nerdfighter Fitness Challenge .  Hank, I have three suggestions for the 2009 Nerdfighter Fitness Challenge .  First, we need to extend the deadline to October 1 .  Second, instead of it being a competition between you and me, it should be a competition between you and me and all of Nerdfighteria .   And third, it should take place in five different disciplines, all of which should be ridiculous .  Nerdfighters, if you want to participate in the fitness challenge, there's a group at the Ning .   And please suggest ridiculous fitness challenges in comments .  Part 4: Cows .  Hank, I'll see you on Tuesday .                 
Good Morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  My wife is a Yeti, my dog is a pirate and I am a semi-professional video blogger .   Hank, do you ever wonder how this all, like, happened ?       Right, so Hank we have 100,000 subscribers .  Let me try to put that in context for you .  That means that if each of our subscribers gave us $100 we could potentially buy a private island in the ocean and make Nerdfighteria a real country .  So Hank, even though Nerd Fighters haven't bought us an island yet; we still like them a lot .   And so in my last video I asked them what we could get them to say thanks .   And here are some of their real suggestions:   Online hip-hop collaboration between Hank and Natalie from community channel .  Yes .  Yes .  YES !  Hank, Nerd Fighters, make that happen !    Do another Tour-De-Nerd-Fighting .  Ok, I promise that we will do another Tour-De-Nerd-Fighting, but it takes a lot of like, planning, and logistics, and money; so it may be a while, but it will happen .    Buy each of your subscribers an iPod .  Yeah, that's a great idea, except first, most of our subscribers probably already have iPods, and second it - it would cost like 10 million dollars, and if I had 10 million dollars I would be using it to buy an island .    You could publish Paper Towns in the United Kingdom .  Good news on that front actually .  Paper Towns WILL BE published in the United Kingdom by Bloomsbury Books .  Thank you, Bloomsbury !   And I am going to do my level best to be in the UK in May of next year .    John and Hank should preform a choreographed dance to the Vanilla Ice song Ice, Ice Baby .  Uh, Hank correct me if I'm wrong here but I think we might already have a massively choreographed dance that we did to Ice, Ice Baby; but you were about six and I was about nine .  In the hazy fog of memory I also recall that we might have done one to the REM song Stand .  Let's just hope those never see the light of day .    John, if you really want to thank your subscribers, you should say I love uni - you people .  You tried to trick me .  You tried to trick me into saying that I love uni- Well, I don't .  I don't love them and I don't care how many unicorn-loving subscribers we get !  Hank, as far as I'm concerned, there could be a million unicorn-lovers in Nerdfighteria and still I WOULD SAY I HATE UNICORNS !    Please show us The Yeti .  Show us The Yeti !  We've been waiting three years, let us see a picture of The Yeti !  YETI !  NOW !  Nerdfighters, I have explained this to you before .  I cannot show you a picture of The Yeti .  Because if I do, the cute will break your computers, and then you'll be mad and you'll be emailing me like, I want a refund, give me back my computer money .  Seriously: pictures of The Yeti are more damaging than the entertainment .  Infinite Jest jokes, anybody ?  David Foster Wallace ?  No ?  Okay, moving on .    You could give some money to charity .  Now, that's an idea .  Willy and I are going to give $1000 to the charity of your choice, Nerdfighteria .  Leave a comment with the charity that you'd like Willy and me to give money to .  Oooooor I guess technically the charity to which you'd like Willy and me to give money .     And now I have to go to my personal training session so I can beat you in whatever ridiculous fitness challenges await us .   But I will see you, singing, tomorrow .    YES !  Kiss the camera .  Kiss it .  Kiss it !  Kiss it .  G'     YES !  Kiss the camera .  Kiss it, kiss it .  Kiss it .  Good Boy .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Sunday .  Yesterday I was at the Indiana State Fair and I got to see the World's Largest Boar .  He weighs more than eleven hundred pounds and he can't stand up because his body is too big for his tiny little legs .   And what, you ask, is the name of the World's Largest Boar ?  Walkin Tall .  Get it ?  It's funny .  Because he can't walk .  Hank, Walkin Tall, the World's Largest Boar who can't walk reminded me a little bit of America's health care system .  Depending on your perspective, he's either impressively huge or distressingly huge .  So whadaya do when you have a pig that's so big he can't walk ?  You either kill him, put him on a diet, or keep feeding him - which is more or less what the health care debate boils down to .  So, Hank, I wanna talk in a nonpartisan way about the health care debate but I don't wanna scream, and I don't wanna act like the people watching us have the intellectual sophistication of brain damaged goldfish, and mostly I don't wanna talk about death panels, because they're not in the bill and the stupid, unsophisticated debate about them has distracted from a really large and significant issue .  Ok, Hank, so here are two things that pretty much everyone conservative or liberal agrees upon .  One, the United States spends way too much of its gross domestic product on health care, and two, our current health care system is radically unfair .  I'm not saying that other models wouldn't be more unfair, just that our current one is unfair .  Whether you have good health care in America is dependent largely on whether you work for a big company because big companies have to provide health benefits, and second whether you have a preexisting condition which a lot of times isn't your fault .  Some people argue that we need a sort of large scale government run insurance company - the so-called  " public option "  - which everyone would be able to buy into and poorer people would pay less than richer people, and then this huge government run insurer would negotiate lower costs for procedures and also cut down on the number of procedures used .  Now even though the public option would not in any way eliminate private insurers, private insurers still hate the public option because they know that the government run insurance company will be larger and therefore more able to negotiate lower prices which will in turn make the public insurance less expensive which will make people less inclined to use private insurance .  Then you have the people who want to put the pigs on a diet, who say that instead of a public option, we can create these sort of nonprofit insurance companies that will then have to compete with private insurance, and because they won't be for profit companies, they'll be incentivised not to work for the shareholders in the company, but instead to work for the patients they represent .  Now, of course, the down side of the put the pig on a diet plan is that you still end up with tens of millions of people who have no health insurance whatsoever .   And then there are the people who don't want a health system overhaul .  They want to keep feeding the pig .  A lot of those people are happy with the current state of their health care and, to be frank, I think they probably don't want to pay for people who make stupid decisions .   And on some level, Hank, I can empathize with this because when I was at the Indiana State Fair and I saw chocolate covered bacon, I thought to myself, " geeze, I don't really want to be on the financial hook for people who eat chocolate covered bacon .  "  So, Hank, here's the underlying problem .  Even though a lot of people are screaming  " I don't want socialism !  No Socialism !  "  In America right now, we have a lot of socialism .  We share the cost of schools and roads and the military .  We also currently have socialized medicine, we just have an outrageously bloated and inefficient system of socialized medicine because there are hospitals in America where anyone can go and get treatment .  That treatment may eventually bankrupt you and it may be of poor quality, but you can get it .   And I would argue that it is the inefficiency of our socialized medicine that in the end makes health care so much more expensive than it is anywhere else in the world .  Is health care a privilege or is it a right ?  If it's a privilege, even if it's a really desirable privilege like indoor plumbing, we need to stop giving health care of any kind to uninsured people who can't pay for it in advance .   But Hank, I have to tell you, I think the reason we continue to treat people who are uninsured is because we don't believe that health care is a privilege .  We believe that it is a right .   And if it is a right, like life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, it is the responsibility of a government to protect that right .  I'll see you on Tuesday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's August 25th, the day after my thirty-second birthday .  Thank you so much for making my birthday so awesome !  Hank, I don't want to blow it out of proportion, but that video made me happier than anything has ever made me .  I mean, the birthday wishes from all over the world, the burning of unicorns, the blenderizing, the songs, the placing of items onto the heads, and the Willy cakes !  Oh man, the Willy cakes !  Although, you know Hank, Willy for all the love he gets from Nerdfighteria, doesn't seem to love us back enough .  I mean, Hank, look what Willy did to the Great White Wall of Cow !  It's now a Great White Two Legged Tailless Wall of Cow .   And it is with a heavy heart that I report that Willy also seems to have blinded the sock puppet .  Hank, your birthday present really reminded me of why I love Nerdfighteria, and also of why I love the internet .  Here's the amazing thing, people didn't make those songs and artwork and pictures and video clips in order to become famous or rich .  They did it, to quote William Faulkner,  " not for glory, and least of all for profit, but to create out of the materials of the human spirit something which did not exist before .  "   And what I love most about the Nerdfighter community is when we come together to make stuff with and for each other, not to make money, not to get attention, not to gain subscribers, but to make gifts .  Hank, let me give you an example of what I'm talking about that has nothing to do with Nerdfighteria .  Sometimes I feel like the internet is just like flashy flashy lights, but then once in a while, the internet, like a team of a thousand monkeys typing at a thousand typewriters for a thousand years will make us something magical .  I think you know what I'm talking about, Hank .  I'm talking about Gary Busey Family Portrait .  I mean look at it, Hank .  Just look at it .  Do you think the creator of Gary Busey Family Portrait was thinking about getting rich or getting famous as he laboriously photoshopped pictures of Gary Busey into a family portrait ?  No !  He was thinking,  " geez, I have a great idea !   And I'm going to do this well so it will make people happy !  "   And who knows, maybe it will also make Gary Busey realize that, ya know, he needs to make some different choices .  Hank, every single day I get emails from aspiring writers asking my advice about how to become a writer, and here is the only advice I can give .  Don't make stuff because you wanna make money .  It will never make you enough money .   And don't make stuff because you wanna get famous because you will never feel famous enough .  Make gifts for people .   And work hard on making those gifts in the hope that those people will notice and like the gifts .  Maybe they will notice how hard you've worked and maybe they won't, and if they don't notice, I know it's frustrating .   But ultimately that doesn't change anything because your responsibility is not to the people you're making the gift for but to the gift itself .   And I just wanna say, I got your gift .  I liked it .  Thank you .  Three more things .  One, my book Paper Towns is nominated for a Teens Top Ten award !  If you are a teen you can vote for it or other books if you like them better link in the side bar !  Two, in the very near future, I am going to break the Question Tuesday world record by answering 100 questions in 4 minutes .  To do that I will need to you leave many succinct questions in the comments .   And three, I have the distinct honor of announcing the winner of Global Geek Week .  The winner is Gus23 who made a great video about Geek Art which you can view in the sidebar, and who wins two tickets to fly anywhere in the continental United States via Virgin America .  The runner up was a new Nerdfighter who goes by the username Safferoon* who made a great video that you can also view in the sidebar but who sadly doesn't win anything other than my respect and admiration .  Thanks to everyone who make Global Geek Week such a success and thanks again for my awesome birthday present !  Hank, I'll see you singing tomorrow .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Sunday .  So, the Yeti and I are beginning this gigantor home renovation, part of which is to replace these moldy basement walls with, like, non-moldy basement walls .   And when a contractor came to talk to us about it, he was like,  " Look, I recommend destroying the wall on your own .  I mean, it takes a professional to build a wall, but anybody can demolish a wall .  "   And now, Hank, a week later, I feel like I can say with authority and pride that if anyone can demolish a wall, I can do something that no one can do .  Fail at demolishing a wall .   And so, today, Hank, I am going to share my unique talent with you .  I am going to teach you how not to demolish a wall in six easy steps .  Step one, the octopus .  So, Hank, my first strategy to try and tear down the walls   was to throw myself against it .  I did this once before, actually .  I threw myself against the wall to find out if I was an octopus because, you know, octopi stick to walls .  People don't .   And when I did it that first time, I felt the wall shake a little, so the first thing I tried was the octopus .  Still not an octopus .  So, that didn't work .  Then, I moved on to step two: calling former Soviet leader, Mikhail Gorbachev .   " Hi, Mr .  Gorbachev ?  Tear down that wall !  "   And he was like,  " -awkward Russian- "  .  You know, and then of course I remember he doesn't speak English, and plus he lives in Russia, so it would be, like, totally expensive to fly him to Indiana just to tear down my basement wall .   And so I moved on to step three: calling dad .  Dad said I needed a crowbar but I felt like crowbars are like hand guns, you know ?  I understand that I have a constitutional right to own a crowbar but I don't really feel like I need one unless I'm a career criminal .   But he eventually convinced me to go out and buy a crowbar, whereupon I commenced with step four: attempting to use a crowbar .  Ugghhhh .  Which went like that for about an hour and a half .  Then I moved on to step five: getting really angry, which is where the holes in the wall that you see come into play .  Basically Hank I got really mad and I started to hit the wall, which I don't mean metaphorically .  Aaarrgghhh !  Hulk smash !  Then I did that until I felt sleepy, whereupon I took a nap .   And then when I woke up I moved on to step six, which, if you're going to not demolish a wall you want to save until the very end of your experience .  Step six is checking to make sure there is no active electrical wiring in the places where you are willy nilly throwing your steel crowbar .  Which, as it turns out, there is .  So that's how you don't demolish a wall .  You do the octopus, you call Mikhail Gorbachev, you call your dad, you get a crowbar, you go bonkers, you take a nap, you wake up from the nap, check for electrical wiring and then declare yourself a proud and epic fail .  Oh home renovation, you have begun so auspiciously .  Hank, you'll see me on Tuesday .   But will you see the wall ?  Only time will tell .  So, Hank, I think when you get a crowbar you're supposed to want to, like, smash stuff with it, but that wasn't my initial reaction .  My first reaction was that I wanted to treat it as a cane and kind of do a dance like   do do do do do do do do do do, do do do do do do do do do do, do do do do do, do do do do do, do !                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday .  A- as you can see I have not gotten the wall down, yet, but I have tried to make the best of a bad situation, y'know, by- by sprucing things up, a little .  Ohhhhh, new Nerdfighters don't get these jokes and old Nerdfighters wonder why I'm still singing when I said I wouldn't do that anymore sorry .   Hank, today's video comes to you in two very special parts .   Part one: Willy's Secret Shame So, Hank, Willy and I have had this long-time agreement that I would not share his secret shame with you and the Nerdfighters, and in exchange, he would not eat the things I love the most .  He initially violated this deal by eating two legs and part of the face off of the Great White Wall of Cow, which, by the way, is a reference to my new book, Paper Towns, coming out September 22nd in paperback, but I'm getting ahead of myself, that's part two .   So, after the whole Cow fiasco, I sat down with Willy, and I said  " Listen, Willy .  If you eat one more thing I love, that's it: I'm sharing your secret shame .  "   And then, yesterday, I came home after an errand to find this: A mauled, arm less figurine of the Wookiee who should be our nation's next president .  Displaying the kind of irony that one does not generally associate with West Highland Terriers, Willy chewed Chewie .   That's right, Hank: Willy refused to let the Wookiee win and, instead, left behind a foot that will probably require amputation .    And, so now, I am honor-bound to reveal Willy's secret shame .  Willy was born with an extra tailbone that, instead of growing straight, goes down, which means that no matter how hard he tries, my beloved puppy can never achieve a full tailrection .       Part two: Paper Towns paperback So, Hank, I'm working on this new book, and whenever I'm writing something new I can never think about anything except for the thing I'm writing, but it has come to my attention that the paperback of Paper Towns comes out in two weeks .  So, if you haven't had the chance to read the book and you'd like to, I hope that you'll pick it up when it comes out on September 22nd !  Or, you could just pre-order it in the sidebar right now .   So, because I'm super-excited about the release of the Paper Towns paperback, I will be giving away one copy of the book every day for the next fourteen days to my favorite ten-word comment at YouTube or at the Ning .  It doesn't HAVE to be a ten-world Lolcat review of Paper Towns, although that might be a good strategy .   And then I will read all the comments in a special video .  Oh, and my favorite out of ALL the comments will win this: This is something called a playaway .  It's like an iPod, except instead of containing like, all of your favorite songs, it contains only the audiobook of Paper Towns .   Oh, and a lot of people have been asking me about the Paper Towns movie .  The movie rights, as most of you know, were acquired Mr .  Mudd and Mandate, the people who made the movie Juno .  I wrote the first draft of the screenplay, and now I'm getting started on the first big revision, so I'm going to be doing that when I'm not working on my new book .   So, yeah, be patient, but hopefully I'll have more of an update, soon .   Thanks to everyone who's read Paper Towns in English or Dutch or Italian or whatever or listened to it on audio .  The books never feel finished until you read them, so thanks for making it feel done so that I can start a new one .   Hank, I'll see you, singing, tomorrow- I caught that !   DFTBA  - the way, I said I caught that implied that it was the first time I tried, which it wasn't .  The previous time, I hit my own face .   Hank- augh, that hurt .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Friday .  Special Friday video !  Well, not that special actually, I don't want to raise your expectations too much .      Today's video comes to you in five parts .  Part one, the wall !   .  .  . is, as you have no doubt noticed, still there .  Yes, Hank, the great wall fail of 2009 continues to be both a wall and a fail, although I have made some progress .  Over there in the bottom corner you can see the Great White Wall of Cow being ridden by the Dread Pirate Fireball Wilson Roberts .  Then I wrote  " the wall is a unicorn "  on the wall to try to motivate me to bring it down because you know I hate unicorns but even that didn't work .   Part two, your song .  Hank, your song was incredibly good and I love it but it made me think about why we like those crime shows even though they're so predictable .  So, when the Yeti and I watch television, which isn't that often, one of the things we like to do is watch an episode of CSI and then immediately follow it up with an episode of The First 48, which is this show on A&E about actual forensic experts and actual detectives investigating actual crimes .  Because on CSI David Caruso has to, like, out-master the master serial killer and has to, like, take off his glasses all the time and say, like, 'I don't think you were playing the marimba, I think you were playing the murder-imba . '   Whereas on The First 48, and in all real life murders, the detective always has to end up, like, holding the murderer as the murderer bawls because he feels so bad about getting drunk and killing his friend or whatever .  Like, CSI and all the shows like it give you the delusion that evil is some uncomplicated thing living inside of certain people and not others .   And I think we all deeply want to believe the lie that evil is something outside of us and we can be like, 'Hey Evil, I got you with my screwdriver ! ' So, that's why I think we ultimately watch these shows over and over again .  Well, that and also I think our brains like stories that make sense .   And one of the main differences between stories in real life and stories on TV is that stories on TV make sense .  Anyway, great song, just wanted to say that it made me think about all that stuff .    Part three: why don't we have any Nerdfighters in Antarctica ?   .  .  . I didn't say that right .  I don't know, Hank, but this is a fixable situation, noted Awesome Girl and Parselmouth Kristina Horner wants to go to Antarctic and all we need to do to get her there is vote for her in a contest -- link in the sidebar !  Hank, I don't want to get ahead of myself but if we can get Kristina to Antarctica that could potentially mean that we could have videotaped happy dances from Nerdfighters on all seven continents !    Part four, Toms .  Hank, I have two things to tell you about Toms .  First, Ningmaster Tom is now officially the senior executive Nerdfighter, he is the head of all of the Ning and he's going to make it much more awesome for everyone because, Hank, you and I have been failing so epically .  So, everyone go to Nerdfighters . com, it's about to get way better, although I think it is already great and I want to say a special thank you to all the Ningmasters who have made the Ning so awesome for the last several months .    The other Tom I have to tell you about is our original secret brother Tom .  Hank, I have great news about secret brother Tom, he is running for office in the city of Cambridge, Massachusetts .  If you live in Cambridge, you should work for slash vote for him, link in the sidebar .   And more generally, I can't say how excited I am to see Nerdfighters seeking political office so that we can push forward our political agenda, which is, of course, to mandate the addition of In Your Pants to the end of book titles and to increase funding for the re-evolving of puppy-sized elephants .    Part five, contest winners .  So, I'm giving away a copy of the paperback of Paper Towns every day for the next two weeks to my favorite ten word comment, or Paper Towns related video slash song .  I just added that to the contest but if you want to make a Paper Towns video or song that would be so awesome .  Hank, the first three days of this contest has actually seen four winners because I was lying when I said I only had fourteen books, I actually have more than that .    The first winner is Nerdfighter Astrograph whose ten word comment was, 'To end his shame, Willie requires a dose of Vi-wagra . '   The second winner is Nerdfighter Valerie2776 whose LOLCat summary of Paper Towns was 'I'm in ur minivans, peein in ur bluefin bottles . '   Third, Bellster24 who kinda made me tear up a little when she said, 'Your books have changed my life and I'm so grateful . '    And the fourth book so far goes to Semseekitty who commented, 'In Aizen's words, admiration is the furthest thing from understanding . '   Hank, you'll see me on Sunday, but not before you see the new outro .                    
Good morning, Hank .  It's Sunday - it's News Day - and today the news is: no more wall ! Actually that's not the real news .  Today we're going to talk about sex .  Specifically the sex of distance runner Caster Semenya .  So Hank, Caster Semenya is an 18-year-old South African runner who burst out of nowhere to win the 800-meter race at the World Championships in Berlin .   And then several of her competitors said that Semenya had a distinct advantage in the women's 800-meter race - the advantage of not being a woman . So this poor 18-year old had to undergo a gender test .   And it's now being widely reported that Semenya may have an inter-sex condition - specifically  Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome .   Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome is this thing where chromosomally you may be a woman but you have small un-descended testes . Now Hank, before we go any further, I want to say that a lot of teenagers sometimes feel uncomfortable about their bodies .   And they can be quite vulnerable to teasing .  I just want everyone to take a moment to imagine how it would feel to have millions of people around the world discussing your internal testes . Hank even though Caster Semenya is only 18 she has responded to all of this heroically by saying she's proud to be the person God made her, and she's proud of her achievements, and that she is a woman . Now a lot of people say that the complaints of Caster Semenya's competitors are just sour grapes . Hank, remember that time I said  " sour grapes "  and talked about internal testes in the same video ?    I love my job !  But I would argue that the problem is not with Semenya or her competitors, but with Sports itself . So Hank, we like to think of sex as an either/or proposition - you're either male or female .  Even though about 1% of human beings are born neither male nor female but with some kind of inter-sex condition . Hank, my friend Lauren McLaughlin wrote about all of this in a really interesting blog post - link in the sidebar - and she argued that sports is basically an attempt to remove ambiguity from the human condition .  Like, one of the problems of the human condition is that no victory is ever final or assured .  Right ?  That's why you don't put a  " mission accomplished "  banner on your aircraft carrier .  Being a person means never really knowing if you can celebrate .  Like, a wedding is wonderful - unless it leads to divorce .  Winning the lottery is awesome - unless it allows you to develop the cocaine habit you've always wanted . In life, all the things we wish could be clear and unambiguous like victory and love and sex never end up being clear .  Sports allows us to have that lack of ambiguity .  So often when people win trophies in sports they hold it up and say:  " They can't take this away from us .  "  They say that because in the non-sports world fraught with ambiguity, everything else can be taken away .  You always hear sports guys say, like,  " Sports is like life, "  but what we love about sports is that it's not like life .  There's no room for ambiguity in sports, that's why we have photo finishes and instant replay, and that's also why sports will always be, while fun, kind of insufficient . Hank, it seems to me that the people who failed here are the administrators of the sport, who should have decided in advance whether Semenya would be eligible to compete .   And as always in sports, we're gonna have to live with some dumb, arbitrary, but unambiguous rule .  It's been widely reported that Semenya's testosterone levels fall within the range of normal for a woman in which case she should be allowed to compete with women .   But regardless, Hank, I for one will remember Caster Semenya's performance on and off the track as unambiguously heroic . Hank, you'll see me tomorrow ! Cue the outro !                  
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday, September 22nd, 2009, the day that my book,  " Paper Towns "  finally comes out in paperback !  Willy's so excited, he got a haircut !  I gotta get myself one because this is not a paperback; it's just a piece of paper .    OK, Hank, so before I talk about Paper Towns FINALLY coming out in title-appropriate paper-back, I wanna say one other thing: It's been almost a year since the hardcover of  " Paper Towns "  came out and I first found myself in a Margo sandwich .   And Hank, when I look back on that year, I will always remember it as the year that you and the Nerdfighters changed my life .  Your commitment and organization got  " Paper Towns "  on the  " New York Times "  bestseller list, you sent me Black Santas and Great White Walls of Cow, and most of all, because of the Tour de Nerdfighting, I got to meet a lot of Nerdfighters and talk about the book which has been so, so fun .  So now here it is, almost a year later, and  " Paper Towns "  is coming out in lots of different countries, and I'm writing a screenplay for the people who made  " Juno, "  and it won the Edgar Award, and Nerdfighters, I want you to know that none of that would have happened without you .  Weeelll, actually, I might have still won the Edgar, but I wouldn't have been able to make that  " What Would You Do with a Poe Bust "  video !  So Nerdfighters, if you've read  " Paper Towns, "  thanks for reading it, thanks for giving it to your friends, thanks for making freakin' cakes of the paperback cover !  I mean holy snood, Hank, look at that cake !  Whenever they change the covers of the books I'm always really nervous, although I really like the  " Paper Towns "  paperback cover .  Really, a new cover is a new opportunity for Nerdfighters to remind me how awesome they are .  Like, I wasn't sure if I liked the paperback cover of  " An Abundance of Katherines "  until I saw this picture and then I was like,  " Yes, I like it very much .  "  So, ok, thank you to everyone who's read the book, but if you haven't read the book, that's ok: Now you have a great opportunity to .  For one thing,  " Paper Towns "  used to cost, like, $18, and now it only costs $9 . 99 .  Now you're probably saying,  " John, I don't wanna spend $10 on some book, even if it did win the Edgar Award .  "  That's OK !  I'm not asking you to spend $10; I'm asking you to spend $9 . 99 .  .  .  plus applicable sales tax .  So now you may be wondering  " OK, but how do I buy the paperback of 'Paper Towns' ?  "  It's easy !  You can either click the link in the sidebar or you can go to any bookstore in America, which I'm gonna show you how to do right now because I need to go buy a copy of the  " Paper Towns "  paperback because I don't have one and I need fifteen by Friday when I'm going to announce the winners of the Ten-Word Challenge Contest .  The only thing you might want to do before you go to a bookstore is write a Nerdfighter Note .  Nerdfighter Notes are, of course, the little notes that Nerdfighters write to other Nerdfighters   and then slip into copies of my books saying like,  " Hey, if you're reading this, you may be a Nerdfighter !  Don't worry, it's a good thing !  For more information go to Nerdfighters . com !  Best wishes !  'Your Name' "  Only you don't write  " Your Name; "  you write, like, whatever your name is .  Well, you don't write, like,  " Whatever Your Name Is; "  y- you-, you write-    And now, to the bookstore !  You can pretty much go to any bookstore, but I'm going to Kids Ink here in Indianapolis because they have Playmobil .  So you go into the bookstore and you find a paperback of  " Paper Towns "  -- well, in this particular case, I'm going to sign it; I don't recommend that you sign it, but I'm going to .  I'm actually going to buy this one, so it's weird if I sign it .   And then you get to walk out the door with your brand-new copy of  " Paper Towns "  !  If, for some reason, the bookstore doesn't have it in stock, yet, you can always ask a bookseller to order it for you .  Booksellers are nice .  I promise .  OK, Hank, I'm going to go work on the  " Paper Towns "  screenplay for a while .  I'll see you singing, tomorrow .    I actually, I have the camera on right now let me just say something real quick .  I just found out that the editor of  " Paper Towns " , Julie Strauss-Gable, just had a beautiful baby girl, Ariel !  Yay, Ariel !                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Sunday and today we're going to talk about TV for Chickens, which by the way would be a great name for a band .  Intro Hank, when the Yeti and I first started dating I used to have to go to all these contemporary art shows and I knew nothing about contemporary art and the art would be like a lady sitting in a corner licking her own feet .   And I would be like, 'That is so interesting,' while of course on the inside I was thinking, 'Oh my god, how many of these things do I have to go to before this girl will let me take her on regular dates like to dinners and movies and other places where people don't lick their toes in public ? '  And, in fact, in today's cultural discourse it's pretty normal to think that contemporary art is stupid .   But anyway, it turns out that while I still don't like toe licking in a corner   there is in fact a lot of good and interesting contemporary art !  Which brings me to this artist Sarah's working with named Tea Makipaa, who's Finnish but lives in Germany and is doing an exhibition here in Indiana .   And I've become obsessed with this project that Tea Makipaa did a few years ago in which she created TV for Chickens .  So Tea Makipaa goes into this huge hen farm where these chickens have, like, absolutely no personal space and they've literally never seen the light of day because the farm is kept so dark to try to keep the chickens calm and she shows these thousands of chickens who have lived their entire lives in the dark this television show .  The chicken show is just about chickens who do chicken stuff, like they're outside and they walk around and they peck at the ground and et cetra .  So, Hank, now you may be thinking, 'That's dumb, I hate that, why would we make TV for Chickens when we could draw pretty pictures of starry starry nights ? ' Turns out, the chickens who have lived their whole lives in the dark and have no idea what it's like to run free frackin love the chicken tv show .  It makes the chickens less anxious, it makes them peck at themselves less and it makes them much less likely to commit murder .  Not murder of humans but murder of other chickens, apparently homicidal chickens are a huge problem in chicken farms .  So, basically, TV for chickens makes chickens more passive .  It makes them more likely to accept their crap lives .  I wonder what TV for humans does ?  I mean Hank, now whenever I see people in YouTube comments being giant squids of anger like blaaablaaaaaaagh, I always want to say, 'Dude, you need to watch more TV .  It'll wash that homicidal aggression right off ya . ' Also you begin to think that if chickens need TV for chickens in order not to kill each other during their darkened, miserable lives, maybe I shouldn't eat so many eggs .   But even that response is inadequately complex because the fact of the matter is that if we all stopped eating eggs and chickens, chickens would go extinct .  We've bred out all the natural defenses of chickens, the only reason the species exists is because it's delicious .  So, TV for chickens, which may have initially not seemed like a great art piece turns out to ask all kinds of interesting questions .  So, Hank, Nerdfighters, this is my non-rhetorical question for you: Which is better ?  A world where chickens require TV for chickens in order not to be driven into a homicidal psychosis ?  Or a world with no chickens at all ?  Hank, you will see me tomorrow announcing several exciting things including the winners of the Paper Towns paperbacks .  Outro So, Hank, right before I came downstairs to film the video, I asked the Yeti if I should unbutton my second button in an attempt to, you know, like, bring a little sex appeal to Nerdfighteria .   And she was like, 'Sweetie, you know I love you but you're just not a two-buttons kind of guy . '                
Demolition .   Good morning Hank, it's Monday .   So since people inside are currently demolishing my house, I'm filming in my front yard .   Okay Hank, today's video comes to you in four parts .  Part 1: Paige Railstone .  She's real .  That's right Hank, nerdfighters have successfully convinced the bots at 20q . net that Paige Railstone is a real person .  God I love nerdfighters .   Part 2: Speaking of the awesome of nerdfighters, I get to announce some new Ningmasters .   So Hank, senior executive Ningmaster Tom has recruited some new Ningmasters .  They are forum Ningmasters Eric and Chris, images Ningmaster Kate aka teamunicorn, showing that just because I hate unicorns doesn't mean I don't love people who love unicorns .  The new chat Ningmasters are koohy and Shawn .   And for the first time we've got a wiki Ningmaster, Jake .  That's right Hank, we're relaunching the wiki-wiki-wookie .  Nerdfighters if you want to contribute to the wiki, and we really need you to, you can go to wiki . brotherhood2 . com .  The books Ningmaster is going to be  , the blogs Ningmaster is going to be Sarah aka cleverestwitch .  Our anti-worldsuck Ningmaster is Anika .   And our official duckies Ningmaster is Ashley .   I don't know why we have an official duckies Ningmaster but we do .   Part 3: nerdfighter gatherings .  Hank, nerdfighters that live in or around the Bay area should go to an awesome nerdfighter gathering on October 10 .  Nerdfighters are getting together for a fundraiser for Sean Ahmed's Uncultured Project .   Also wheezywaiter's Driftless Pony Club will be playing .  It's going to be so awesome, I wish I could be there, but since I can't hopefully many of you will .  More info in the sidebar .  I'm pointing in the wrong direction .  Dang it .   Finally part 4: the winners of the Paper Towns paperbacks .  Hank, I have ten winners left to announce .  First, the winner of the song challenge, is mashcpb10 for his awesome Paper Towns songs .  There were a lot of great songs and I hated to choose just one, but in the end I had to .   Ten word comment winners .  Soul tapestry .  When the wall is gone, where will Willy hide his victims ?  Willy !  Where do you keep the bodies ?  He's not talking .   Lemons349, all your paperback Paper Towns are belong to us .   Nair139, going naked under your graduation robe can never end well .  Which is really one of the main lessons I was trying to impart when writing Paper Towns .   Meowy3, unicorns were totally left off the Ark for a reason .  Amen .   Pineappleriot, oh noes, I'm wielding your guitar .  Killin' all your fascists .  If only Woody Guthrie could have known that one day I would use a line of his in a book of mine that would be turned into lolspeak by a reader .   rpm2004 .  Diary, September 13 .  Talked about sports and hidden testicles .   Fangirl of awesome wins for a video in which she explains the story behind the following ten word comment: Sad Margo is sad because Happy Margo has been eaten .   Boonvt .  Paper Towns in your pants chafes but still reads well .    And the last winner is morwin, who writes: don't worry Hank, my little ponies is a legit obsession .  Don't listen to her Hank, it isn't .   I'm sorry if you didn't win one of the books .  There were more than 15000 entries, which means you only had a 1:1000 chance of wining so hopefully you won't be mad at me and you'll still consider getting the book .   Winners, email me your address .  Hank, DFTBA .  Now let's listen to some of that great song .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Sunday .  So, your video about the thirteen severed hands of Star Wars kind of blew my mind with its brilliance .  By the way, Nerdfighters, if you haven't seen it, you should .  Link in the thingy .   And when I was watching you showcase your masterful knowledge of the Star Wars universe, I started to think like,  " I don't even know half of the severed hands of Star Wars .  Maybe I'm not even a nerd !  "  Well, Hank, as you can imagine, the thought that I wasn't a nerd was duly horrifying .   But, then I remembered that I have memorized all the known last words of American presidents .  ahh mmm George Washington:  " Tis well .  " John Adams:  " It is the glorious 4th of July .  It is a great day .  It is a good day .  "   And then he fell asleep and he woke up later and said  " Thomas Jefferson still survives .  "  Which wasn't true . Thomas Jefferson had died earlier that same day, July 4th, 1826 .  His last words were,  " Is it the fourth ?  "  Actually, those weren't his last words .  Those would have been great last words but then he said  " I resign my spirit to God and my daughter to my country .  "  At which point his daughter was presumably like  " Dude .  You don't own me .  You can't resign me to anybody .  I mean, like, jeez, Dad .  Do you believe that human beings can own other human beings ?  Oh, right .  You do .  " James Madison:  " I always talk better lying down .  " James Monroe, speaking about James Madison:  " I regret that I should ever leave this world without again beholding him .  " John Quincy Adams:  " This is the last of the earth .  I am content .  "  Andrew Jackson:  " Be good, children .  All of you .   And strive to be ready when the change comes .  "  No mention of which change . Martin van Buren:  " There is but one reliance .  " William Henry Harrison:  " I wish that you could understand the true principles of government .  I ask them to be carried out .  I ask nothing more .  " John Tyler:  " Doctor, I am going .  Perhaps it is best .  " James K .  Polk, whose last words would be good last words for me, too:  " I love you, Sarah .  I love you for all eternity .  " Zachary Taylor:  " I regret nothing, but I am sorry that I'm about to leave my friends .  " The under appreciated Millard Fillmore, after drinking a spoonful of soup, famously said,  " the nourishment is palatable .  " Franklin Pierce, tragically unknown . James Buchanan, seemingly aware of the fact that history would judge him one of the worst presidents ever said  " I shall carry to my grave the consciousness that at least I meant well for my country .  Oh, Lord God, as thou wilt .  " Abraham Lincoln said,  " Either it doesn't really matter, or they won't think anything of it .  "  as he was trying to convince his wife that they shouldn't be embarrassed about holding hands in public .  Andrew Johnson:  " I need no doctor .  I can overcome my own trouble .  "  Or not . Ulysses S .  Grant:  " Water .  " Rutherford B .  Hayes:  " I know I am going: where Lucy is .  " James Garfield:  " Swain, can you stop this .  Oh, Swain .  "  Swain was Garfield's chief of staff, but it occurs to me that Swain would be a pretty good substitute for  " dang .  "  Like,  " oh, swain !  I stubbed my toe !  " Chester A .  Arthur, unknown . Grover Cleveland:  " I have tried so hard to do right .  " Benjamin Harrison:  " Doctor, my lungs !  " When William McKinley's wife said,  " I want to go, too, "  McKinley answered,  " We are all going .  " Teddy Roosevelt:  " Put out the light .  " William Howard Taft's last words were unknown .  But Woodrow Wilson's were  " I am a broken piece of machinery .  When the machine is broken, I am ready .  " Warren Harding:  " That's good .  Go on .  Read some more .  " Calvin Coolidge:  " Good morning, Robert .  "  So off topic, but Calvin Coolidge was famous for never saying anything, and one time this woman comes up to him and she says  " So my friend bet me that I couldn't get more than two words out of you, "  at which point Calvin Coolidge says  " You lose .  " Herbert Hoover:  " Levi Strauss was one of my best friends .  " Franklin Roosevelt:  " I have a terrific pain in my head .  " Harry Truman, unknown . Dwight Eisenhower:  " I'm ready to go, God .  Take me .  " John F .  Kennedy, after being told that Dallas loved him, said  " That's very obvious .  " Lyndon Johnson's last words were,  " Send Mike immediately .  " Neither Nixon nor Reagan's last words were recorded .  All other presidents are currently alive .  I did it, Hank !  You'll see me on Tuesday !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  Since I forgot to ask the nerdfighters for questions I can't do Question Tuesday so instead I'm gonna do an old school parts video .  Today's video comes to you in three parts .  Part one: an important breakthrough in the field of In Your Pants .    So Hank by now it's well known that if you add the words 'in your pants' to the end of a book title that book title often becomes funnier .   And every so often a nerdfighter discovers an impossibly funny example of the In Your Pants rule .  Of course you will no doubt remember the last one, the Winnie the Pooh Easy Reader, 'Pooh Gets Stuck' in your pants .   But I think a nerdfighter named Iman might have an even better example of the In Your Pants rule .  Okay Hank, I don't wanna raise your expectations too high, but first off, this book was written by Victoria Beckham .  You know Victoria Beckham, she was in that girl group and they were about to tell us what they really really wanted .   And I was like yes, tell me what you really want !   And they were like, do you really really wanna know what I really really want ?   And I was like, YES, I just told you !   And then it turns out that instead of actually wanting something they just wanted a zig a zig ah which is not even a thing .  So anyway, Victoria Beckham wrote a book .   And it is called: 'That Extra Half an Inch' .  .  .  in your pants .  With the subtitle, 'hair, heels and everything in between'--well Hank, I don't think you need to be an expert in anatomy to know that a lot of what occurs between your hair and your heels is in fact in your pants .  Part two: Appearances !  Hank in the next week, I'll be making two appearances .  You know what appearances are, they're like this .  Actually it's nothing like that, what actually happens is that instead of being a rectangle inside your computer I become a full-fledged person .  Arguably too much full, not enough fledged .  Chicago area nerdfighters, I will be in Lagrange, on October 13th, more info in the thingy .   And if you're over 21 and live in or near Indianapolis you should come hang out with me at this awesome fundraiser on Saturday night .  Check out the thingy !  Hey nerdfighters, now that the sidebar isn't a sidebar, what should I call it .  Oh and also if you live in the Bay Area, you have to go hang out with the Bay Area nerdfighters this Saturday, October 10th .  Check it out the .  .  .  I haven't named it yet .  Part three: beckoning lovely .  Hey there lovely .  It's me .  John Green .  Why don't you come downstairs .  If you come downstairs I'll give you a pirate puppy .   And backslash creeper .  No Hank, beckoning lovely is not about perverts in basements .  It's a profoundly moving community based project my friend Amy Krouse Rosenthal is doing with lots of people including lots of nerdfighters .  It's pretty nerdfightastic .  Link, as always, in the as yet unnamed box to which I am diagonally connected .  By the way, off topic but The As Yet Unnamed Box to Which I Am Diagonally Connected would be a good name for a band .  Hank, I'll see you singing tomorrow .  Nerdfighters, thanks for being so awesome, I hope to see lots of you in Chicago and Indianapolis, it's gonna be tonnes of fun, there will be presents and lots of hilarity .  Hey there lovely .  You want a pirate pup- - I'm not good at being a creeper .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Sunday; it's news day and the news around here is that my house is a construction zone and most of the electricity is turned off and we don't have any place to sleep .   And, unrelated to the incredibly expensive home renovation, my basement flooded on Friday, so now I have to take out all the carpet and fixing it is going to cost a billion dollars and I'm cranky !   And when I get cranky, I put Willy in his tiny elephant costume .  Oh, hey !  Two quick things .  I will be reading and signing and hanging out with fellow made-of-awesome nerdfighters this Tuesday at a book store in La Grange, Illinois .   And, next Tuesday at the library in Columbus, Ohio .  Both events are totally free .  Please come .  More info in the dooblydoo .   And now, back to your regularly scheduled intro .  Okay, Hank .  Today I wanna talk about elephant puppies and capitalism because capitalism has had a bad go of it recently, like failure to regulate the free market is being blamed for the great recession and for the screwed up American healthcare system and a lot of other things .   And I happen to think that the free market is in many ways a great thing .  So for one news day at least the giant squids of anger are going to stop screaming about how I'm a left wing communist and start screaming about how I'm a right wing fascist .  Off topic, but, Hank, do you remember that band  " The Left Winged Fascists "  that we liked when we were kids ?  They were awesome .  Right, so but okay, let's say you have a dollar and let's say you decide to spend that dollar buying fabric and thread and needles and whatever else you need to build a puppy-sized elephant costume for a puppy .  Then you sell the puppy-sized elephant costume for $5 .  You go out, you buy enough fabric for 5 costumes, which you sell for $25, giving you enough money to make 25 costumes, which you sell for $125, and so on until you're rich .  At least until you lose all your money in the great basement flood of 2009 .  Although then, thanks to the free market, you'll be able to get competing bids from multiple contractors so that solving your basement problem, while it will cost you so much money that the only way to cope will be to dress your puppy up as an elephant, will be as cheap and efficient as possible .  Anyway, capitalism isn't actually that simple because the actual functioning of capitalism is based on debt .  In the real world, you probably won't be able to scale up the production of your puppy-sized elephant business without at some point borrowing money .  Maybe you don't have the dollar you need to build the first costume or maybe you need money to build a highly automated factory that will produce puppy-sized elephant costumes cheaper and more efficiently .  At some point you will have to borrow money, which you'll have to pay back with interest .   But if your business idea is a good one, like, say, elephant costumes for puppies or, say, penicillin, you'll be able to pay back the loan with interest and still make a profit .   And the weird thing about that is when loan capital flows freely, wealth gets created .  Now, of course, an unregulated free market can also lead to decreased economic activity, like, say, if the sight of a puppy in an elephant costume is so transfixing that people who own such costumes find it impossible to leave their houses in order to go to work .  Which is basically why heroin's illegal, but that's another story .  The story today is that, on average, people who live in countries with freer markets get richer over time because those markets create wealth .  That's why micro-finance works .  Through websites like kiva . org--link in the dooblydoo--, people like me are able to loan money to entrepreneurs in the developing world who live on less than a dollar a day .   And then those people can have the capital to start a small business and then pay me back with the revenue that business generates .  Loaning money to poor entrepreneurs almost never costs the lender anything .  The loans are repaid 99% of the time .  So you can loan the same $25 over and over and over again and you get to watch the free market work .   And it does work .  Hank, money can't buy love but it can buy longer, healthier, more secure lives .   And ill-fitting puppy costumes .  It's an amazing feeling to watch these tiny loans bring people out of poverty all over the world .   And because it's a loan, and they repay me, it doesn't even cost me anything .  So, Hank, that's Willy's defense of the free market .  Nerdfighters, if you wanna see a made-of-awesome free market in action, you can go to kiva . org, and, Hank, I'll see you on Tuesday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Sunday .  It's news day .  I'm coming to you from a room that will hopefully someday be my bathroom, but is currently just another uninhabitable room in my house .    So Hank, in your last couple of videos, which, by the way, have been great, you've been talking about why we think about the things we think about, and why we behave the way we behave, and how sometimes we're incentivised by corporations to act like jerks .  I want to continue that conversation a little bit .  So the other day, the Yeti comes home from work and I'm crying .   And she's like, what are you crying about, pansy ?   And I was like,  " There's this boy in Colorado and he's not in a balloon !  He's in his attic !  He's safe !  "  Now Hank, you may be thinking, given that you can choose to think about anything in the world, why on earth would you think about a flying saucer balloon flying over Colorado ?   And I'll tell you why .  I was thinking about it because I could root for something .  I didn't have to think about the complexities of tribalism in Afghanistan, or health care policy, there was a boy, in a balloon, and I wanted him to live .   But, as is usually the case with stories that makes sense, it turned out not to make any sense at all .  So Hank, what happened was this kid Falcon Heene  , although all the newscasters couldn't figure out how to pronounce his last name, so for the longest time they were calling him Falcon Heene   .  I'm just going to call him Falcon Heene   .  So the Heene family is into science, and y'know, science families have balloons and stuff, so 6 year old Falcon Heene climbs into this balloon, the balloon takes off, and then he is in what balloonists refer to as mortal danger .  Then, after hours, the balloon starts to descend, and this hero grabs the guide wire and is like dragged along by the balloon for the longest time, then pulls it to the ground .   And then there's no kid in the balloon, so the question becomes, where is Falcon ?  By the way, that's about when I started crying, but then the story started to get a little weird .  Turns out the family's been on the show Wife Swap twice, and that they aren't into science as such, as they're into weird science .   And not the kind of weird science where you make hot girls, but the kind of weird science where you think that Hilary Clinton is a reptilian .  Seriously, Hank, the dad of this family thinks that Hilary Clinton is something called a reptilian, which is where you have like a reptilian nature, but you're able to do shape shifting, and he also thinks that a secret cabal of these shape shifting reptilians runs the world .  Now Hank, I know what comments I'm going to get, a lot of giant squids of anger who are like  " BLAAAARGH DON'T MAKE FUN OF REPTILIANS THEY'LL COME FOR YOU !  "   But I'm just gonna come out and say it Hank, believing that there is a secret cabal of reptilian shape shifters who run the world, is stupid .  So, a few hours later, they find Falcon Heene hiding in a box in his attic .  ANd the sheriffs department assures us that it could not have been a hoax, but it turns out that it was a hoax, and the sheriff is going to be filing charges against Mr .  Heene within the next few days .  Now Hank, I don't know what hoax evidence the police have, but let me when I knew it was a hoax .  It was't when Falcon Heene turned to his dad and said,  " You said we did this for a show " , or even the next day, when Falcon Heene was forced to go on the Today Show and vomited .  Because who can blame him for that ?  I mean, I vomit sometimes just watching the Today Show .  I knew it was a hoax when daddy Heene said,  " I'm not selling anything, this is what we do all the time "  .  This is what we do all the time, he said .   And look how many people watched it .   And wouldn't that make great television .  He got on Wife Swap twice, he pitched a show to TLC that they passed on, but he couldn't stop wanting to be a famous television star Hank, so he faked the possible death of his son .   And he thought he would get away with it, because like all narcissists, he thinks that he's a genius, and Hank, nerdfighters, here is my non-rhetorical question of the day for you: Given what we know about fame, given that we know it leads to divorce, and borderline personality disorder, and shaving your head for no reason, and general asshat-ery, why would people want to be famous ?   And more disturbingly, why will they sell out their values and the people they love in order to get attention from strangers ?  By the way Hank, I'm not casting aspersions on others, I think that everyone struggles with this, including me .   But I just don't get it .  If we behave in the way we're incentivised to behave, what is the possible incentive for fame ?  It's not money, lawyers make better money than the stars of TLC shows, what is it ?  Hank, you'll see me on Tuesday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Sunday, November 1st, the first day of NaNoWriMo !      In case you don't know what NaNoWriMo is, it's National Novel Writing Month, an annual event in which people try to write a 50,000 word novel in a single month .    But Hank, before I talk about NaNoWriMo, I think I need to discuss something that's been on all of our minds - my puff .  It's big .  Sarah pointed out the other day that the puff has gotten so big that it's kinda three puffs .  It's like baby puff, baby puff, mommy puff .  So I apologize if the puff distracts you .   So Hank, when we first started Brotherhood 2 . 0, back in 2007, when home ownership seemed like a good investment and YouTube was square, all these nerdfighters started asking me  " Have you ever done NaNoWriMo ?  "   And I was like, no, everybody knows it's impossible to write a good book in a month .  Which, by the way, is true .   Wait, what about  " On the Road "  ?   Yeah, contrary to popular legend,  " On the Road "  wasn't written in a month, it was written in seven years .   Okay, I was wrong about  " On the Road " , but what about --  No, there is no such thing as a good novel that gets written in a month, because --  Hold on pretentious McAsshat, let me finish my point .  What about  " Babysitters Club 43: Claudia's Sad Goodbye "  ?   Oh, that is a great book .  Seriously .    But, it is the exception that proves the rule, and as a rule, no great book can be written in a month .  That said, I've always really admired the nerdfighters who take on the NaNoWriMo challenge, and this year, I'm gonna join them .   There are two things that I really love about NaNoWriMo .  One, whether you're writing for fun or as your job, writing requires discipline .   And it requires a lot of discipline to write 50,000 words in 30 days .  Secondly, I'm increasingly convinced that while no great book can be written in a month, no great book can be written in a first draft, no matter how long it takes you to write it .   Books are made in revision .  For all three of my novels, I have deleted more than 90% of the first draft .   And everything that people like about my books emerges in later drafts .  Like Miles' obsession with the last words of famous people in Looking for Alaska, came out in revision .  The crazy hunting through rural Tennessee for a feral hog in An Abundance of Katherines ?  Revision .  All that stuff about cartography and the real meaning of Paper Towns ?  Revision .   Like, if you want to think about it like sculpture, writing a first draft is like digging the clay out of the ground, and revision is when you actually use the clay to like, build something that you like .  I am a writer .  I come up with metaphors for a living .  Like that one .   See ?  That was a good example of first draft failure .  Hank, let's edit that metaphor .  Okay, if you want to make a chair, your first draft is cutting down the tree, and then revision is, this is why my books take three years to write .   What NaNoWriMo does for writers young and old, is give us permission to suck .  So NaNoWriMo forces you to be disciplined, and it gives you permission to suck, which are two of the things you most need if you're going to be a novelist .  The other thing you need is an adequate supply of snacks .  I recommend Cub Scout popcorn .   So Hank, I am seriously gonna try to write 50,000 words of a story over the next month .  I will be updating you on my progress every day at the Ning -- link in the sidebar -- and to my fellow nerdfighters who are joining me on the crazy NaNoWriMo adventure: there's a group about it at the Ning, and we also have an official discussion forum over at the NaNoWriMo website .   And no, I am not going to share with you what I write over the course of November .  If I'm lucky, it'll be good enough that I can spend the next 2 years revising it .   Okay, I should probably start writing, but Hank, you'll see me on Tuesday .                 
Good morning Hank it's Tuesday, I'm a little frazzled from NaNoWriMo-ing, but today we have to talk about something super important - Your second album, This Machine Pwns n00bs !  Best album title EVER !  which comes out November 16th and is currently available for pre-order .  Also, we're gonna play a game called 'jumping jack push up dance move' .  Okay Hank, so I've used my connections to obtain a leaked copy of your new album This Machine Pwns n00bs, and it is just SO SO good .   And I love it, and nothing against your previous work, but it's by far your best album to date .  Like listening to it over and over again I've realized that your songs aren't just funny and like insanely catchy in the way that you wake up singing 'This isn't Hogwarts, this is a concrete box', they're also meditations on how and why to be hopeful in this broken world .   And yes, I'm seriously saying that about an album which contains a song called 'I'm not Edward Cullen .  I'm not saying this as your brother but as a fellow nerdfighter, This Machine Pwns n00bs is one of the most made of awesome albums I've ever listened to .   And I'm proud of you, there I said it .  Okay Hank, I'm so excited about your new album that I'm going to use the first single to initiate the first event in the 2009 nerdfighter fitness challenge !  The rules are simple, how many circuits of jumping jack push up dance move can you do during your Song About an Anglerfish ?    .  By the way, to be official, a dance move must feature at least two distinct movements, this is not a dance move - that is .    Clearly, I need to er .  .  expand my dance moves vocabulary .  Hank that was the best I can do, can you beat me ?  Okay, so I pre-ordered my copy of This Machine Pwns n00bs, in fact I pre-ordered six so I can give them away as Christmas presents .  Nerdfighters, you can and should pre-order it now at dftba . com .   And while supplies last you can get this ridiculously awesome and inexpensive bundle which includes the CD, a This Machine Pwns n00bs t-shirt, and a Hank pin-up poster .  Proving once and for all Hank, that you are the pin-up brother and I am the puffy brother .  Congratulations on the album, I'll see you tomorrow .    Oh .  Thanks buddy .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Sunday .  No more puff !  I'm 9000 words behind on NaNoWriMo but I'm doing fantastic in Neanderthal November .  Today we're gonna talk about the Swine Flu vaccine, the illusion of not choosing, and injecting filtered urine into your hip .    So Hank, to be totally honest, even though I know it's irrational, I felt a little bit nervous about getting the H1N1 vaccine .    So I'm not in the high-risk group, although I do hang out with a lot of children   .  Which reminds me, Nerdfighters, I'm gonna be in Hinsdale, Illinois this week; you should come hang out, more info in the doobly-doo !   And to be honest Hank, the reason I've been worried is because of one woman, Denise Jennings, who was like a cheerleader for the Washington Redskins, and then she got a flu shot and all of a sudden, she couldn't walk or talk and she was having seizures and she was diagnosed with this horrible incurable disease called Dystonia that she got as a result of her flu vaccine .   And I was like, oh, man, even if there's a one in ten million chance of that side effect, I really don't want it to happen to me .   But just as I was having all these misgivings about the oink-barf vaccine, I read a study that only 40% of parents of American school children plan to get their kids vaccinated .   And the number one reason they cited was that they were afraid of side effects .   And then I found myself thinking, you know, there's also a side effect to not getting the oink-barf vaccine .  .  .  Oink-barf .  Which is by any measure much more dangerous to school children than the vaccine, which isn't dangerous at all but more on that in a second .   But because getting the vaccine is an active choice, and not getting the vaccine is a passive choice, it feels more conservative not to get the vaccine .  Ok, so back to Denise Jennings .  I've got good news, Hank .  She's making a full recovery, she can talk, she stopped moving weird - which mean that she did not in fact have Dystonia .   And the other thing that hasn't been widely reported is that the doctor who purportedly cured Denise Jennings is bonkers .  For instance, he believes in this terrifyingly horrible thing called Urine Injection Therapy, wherein your urine is filtered and then put back into your body via a syringe to boost your immune system .  Which, by the way, doesn't work .  This dude, Dr .  Rashid  Buttar, is also one of the charming guys who cons late-stage cancer patients out of their money .  You know, with promises of miracle cures that never come to pass .  Now of course there's always the possibility that this crazy dude's crazy treatments actually do cure Dystonia .   But if that's the case, he sure is a jerk, because he's never been willing to have a clinical trial .  It's almost like he knows he's full of crap .  So why is Denise Jennings better ?  Maybe it's because her initial diagnosis acknowledged that there was probably a significant psychogenic component to her illness .  Or maybe it's because she saw a doctor who injects people with pee .  By the way, Hank, I am not trying to enter the vaccine debate because I fear the giant squids of anger being like,  " Blah, you're not gonna get a vaccine to keep me from kicking your butt .  "  I love you, giant squids of anger, but I also fear you .  So Hank, I'm really not talking about that .  What I'm talking about is the fact that each moment in our lives we are playing the odds, and we tend to play best when we play rationally .  I'll see you on Tuesday .    You like my hair cut ?    Ow .  That hurt .  That, I shouldn't have done that .                 
Good morning Hank, I'm on a plane .  No I'm not, I'm on the ground No, I'm on a plane .  No, I'm on the ground .  See what I did there ?  So Hank, I'm on my way home from the wedding of my friends Thomas and Rebecca which was in New Orleans, and I don't know if you've ever been to a New Orleans wedding but - whoo .   But Hank, I am not here to talk about the fact that I slept for eighty six minutes last night, I'm here to talk about children's books .  So Hank, I don't know if you remember this, but when I was a little kid, my favorite book in the entire world was called  " Gus Is A Bug .  "  It was about this caterpillar, named Gus, who was a bug .   And in retrospect  " Gus Is A Bug "  was just trying to teach me that like, the letter  " U "  can be associated with the sound  " uh .  "   But at the time I thought it was like the greatest accomplishment in the history of literature .  In fact, a couple years later when I read Eric Carl's classic,  " The Very Hungry Caterpillar, "  I remember thinking to myself,  " This is good, but it's no  " Gus Is A Bug !  "  "  Now Hank, people like to think that books are a path to authorial immortality, that like, if you write a book, that means that like, your name and story will live on forever .   But the truth is the vast majority of books, even great ones like  " Gus Is A Bug "  eventually go out of print and become entirely forgotten .   And in fact, Hank, despite extensive searching, I have been unable to locate a single copy of  " Gus Is A Bug "  anywhere in the world .  I would almost think that I made up the greatness of  " Gus Is A Bug "  except some teacher reprinted the text of it on the internet .  So I know the text of  " Gus Is A Bug "  - which, by the way, is brilliant - I just don't know who wrote it, or what the pictures look like .   And so Hank, today, I am challenging the Nerdfighters .  Nerdfighters, if you find me a copy of  " Gus Is A Bug "  or the author of  " Gus Is A Bug, "  you can punish me in whatever way you see fit .  Also, even if we don't find a copy of  " Gus Is A Bug, "  I think we should make one !  We know the text, we just need the pictures .  So Nerdfighters, if you don't want to get in on the project of finding a copy of  " Gus Is A Bug, "  you can get in on the project of making  " Gus Is A Bug .  "  All you need to do is draw one or more pictures based on the text I am about to read you, and then upload your pictures to the Ning - link in the sidebar - and then I will be able to reconstitute this amazing experience from my childhood .  Okay Hank, without further ado, I am going to share with you the amazing story of a young caterpillar named Gus, and his stunning transformation into a butterfly .  Gus has fuzz .  Gus runs, and runs, and runs .  Gus has fun in the mud .  Gus nips a bud .  Yum yum !  Gus rubs his fuzz .  He rubs and rubs .  Gus has a nap .  Gus naps and naps .  Gus is up !  Gus tugs and tugs .  *gasp* It is Gus !  Gus has no fuzz .  - God I just love that revelatory moment at the end -no fuzz !  The people in the airport think that I'm crazy .  The people in the airport think that I'm crazy .  So Nerdfighters, there is your text for illustrating and good luck tracking down a copy of the book .  Hank, you'll see me on Tuesday .  Oh, and Nerdfighters, please leave me questions and comments, I'm gonna do a question Tuesday on Tuesday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  It's Question Tuesday, where I answer real questions from real nerdfighters !  -awesome intro by Julia Nunes- Is the character of Ben in your book, Paper Towns, based on anyone you knew in high school ?  Yes, myself .  Is it still possible to be a secret sibling ?  Yeah !  Just make video responses !  Everyone who makes video responses is a secret sibling !  How's NANOWRIMO going ?  Mmm, it's going OK but I'm ten thousand words behind because I've had to work on the Paper Towns screenplay revision .  How's the Paper Towns screenplay ?  Mmm, going OK but I'm a little bit behind because I've had to work on NANOWRIMO .  What is love ?  Baby don't hurt me, don't hurt me no more .  What's up with the beard ?  It makes you look like a creeper !  I'm growing the beard for something called Movember in which lots of people grow unusual facial hair in order to raise money for prostate cancer research .  So anyway, someone offered some money to prostate cancer research if I grew the beard for the whole month .  Your question ought to be why is Hank currently clean shaven in clear support of prostate cancer ?  Wait, who the eff is hank ?  Hank is an optical disc originally created to store sound recordings .   But these days, many different kinds of data are recorded on Hank .  Is Hank's album gonna be on iTunes ?  It already is on iTunes !  Link in the doobly-doo !   But would recommend that you consider buying the actual physical Hank, because that comes with a poster .  Why don't you like unicorns ?  Do you at least like glitter ?  I don't like unicorns because they refuse to disarm and become horses, they insist on walking around with those deadly weapons attached to their faces !   But yeah, I love glitter .  .  .  Specifically glittery unicorn poison .  How do you feel about fruit cake ?  It's kinda the unicorn of the cake genre to me .  I wanna buy Hank's album but I don't have any money though .  Your question is not technically a question nor, in fact, am I convinced that it's a sentence but I wanna help you .  For forty eight hours from the moment this video goes live, I will give you two dollars .  Seriously .  So here's what I'm gonna do and Hank's not even gonna find out about it for like, a week, 'cause he's on tour .  For the next two days if you go to the link in the doobly-doo, DFTBA dot com slash John is giving me two dollars, your CD will only cost thirteen dollars and then I will pay the other two dollars to Hank .  Also, I think I'm gonna pay him in two dollar bills because I have a ton of two dollar bills and lately I've been like, what do you do with these things ?  Oh, and if you're mad because you already bought the CD and so I'm not giving you two dollars, here's a two dollar hug .  It's just for you .  Can you feel it ?  I can feel it .  Feels good .  That's enough, it's starting to get a little awkward, huh ?  Ok, I'm gonna, lets, ok .  That was nice though .  Glad we had that .  Are your books in Serbian ?  Amazingly, yes !  Check out my Serbian name, it's like,  " Dzon Grin "  .  Or maybe it's Dijon Grin .  Do you have any tips on coming out to my parents ?  I think all you can do is be honest, I mean the hard part isn't the part where you say,  " I'm gay " , the hard part is where you have to be understanding of however they respond .  Good luck, I'm rootin' for ya .  Have we found  " Gus is a Bug "  yet ?  YES !  What I could not do for three years, Nerdfighteria did collectively in like, twenty minutes !  So the Gus book is currently on its way to my house, Nerdfighters, please keep sending in your awesome Gus illustrations, and congratulations, now you get to punish me .  Yay .  The official thread for discussing punishments can be found at a link in the doobly-doo .  Nerdfighters, there's some video of Hank on tour in the doobly-doo .  I'm, I, have I been pointing in the wrong direction this entire time ?  Or am I pointing in the right direction ?  God, I hate directions !  Anyway, there's a bunch of tour videos in the doobly-doo and Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Sunday, November 22, and today we will be discussing the burgeoning Marxist revolution in the west African nation of Benin .  Are the new viewers gone yet ?  No, Hank, today we aren't going to be discussing the burgeoning Marxist revolution in Benin, partly because I made it up .  We're gonna talk about something much more exciting: your pain !  Yes, Hank, today, November 22, is a day that will live in famy .  What ?  Famy ?  It's like the opposite of infamy .  It's like there's days that will live in infamy, and there's days that will live in famy .  Hank, I think I can speak for all of Nerdfighteria when I say we have been waiting to punish you forever !  All we wanna do is force suffering and humiliation upon you, but every single Wednesday you make a video, every other Wednesday it's a song, every other Tuesday you make a video, they're never more than 4 minutes long !  It's incredibly annoying !   And then when you do break the rules, like when you briefly uploaded a 7-minute version of your Severed Hands of Star Wars video, you call me and insist that while you may have broken the letter of the law, you didn't the spirit of the law .   And so, of course, after you posted a 4-minute and 2-second video last week, you called me and you were like  " It was only the subscription screen, I'm on tour !  I can't be bothered to live by the rules !  "  Hank, I'm sympathetic to your plight, but let me tell you a story about a world with no rules .  Hank, once upon a time, there was an extremely important and closely fought soccer match .   And then towards the end of that soccer match, Thierry Henry caught a ball, put it at his feet, kicked it to his friend, who then scored a goal and France gets to go to the World Cup because they cheated .  That's what happens in a world where you don't enforce the rules, and while I might have to deal with that stupid kind of stuff in real life, I will not stand for it in Nerdfighteria !  Sorry I'm still kinda mad about that handball .  Hank, here's what bothers me about Thierry Henry's flagrant handball in a game that you probably haven't heard of and don't care about .  Human beings have this tendency in sports and also in real life to think that breaking the rules is not really breaking the rules unless and until you get caught .  Maybe the Giant Squid of Anger shouldn't have a head, it should just be like *angry squid noises* All of which is to say, Hank, that you are getting punished !  Huzzah !  Boy, am I excited, I don't even mind that I'm getting punished when you're also getting punished !  Nerdfighters, you know as well as I do that we do not often get a chance to punish Hank so let's not mess this up .  I need your excellent punishment suggestions in comments, and if you have time I'd love it if you read through all the comments with me and thumbs up the ones that you like the most !  Oh boy, Hank, I have a great feeling about this punishment .  I think it's just gonna be one of the famy-est to date .  Nerdfighters, DFTBA .  Hank, I'll see you on Tuesday .  My beard has become very beardy, but no matter how beardy it gets in here, there's still kind of a fundamental inability to beard over in this area .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday, December 1, which means it's no longer Movember, which means I can finally frakking shave, which I will be doing over the course of this video .  Movie magic .  So Hank, lately I've feeling like my life is completely out of control -- you know how it is, a few things slip because you're busy and overwhelmed and then one day you look up and you're like,  " Oh my goodness, I am a failed state of a person .  "  Sometimes you look at your life and you don't even know where to start making changes .  Now, Hank, multiply that problem by a hundred eighty million .  That's Pakistan .  Where do you even start ?  Public education ?  Pakistan has a forty percent illiteracy rate, although it's dropping steadily .   And for many families, the only real educational opportunity available to their kids are at these madrasas, where they spend all their time reading the Qur'an without, apparently, ever reading the parts where it talks about killing women and children always being wrong .  These madrasas, by the way, are all paid for with Saudi oil money, which, you know, used to be our money, so .  .  .  good on us .  So, education .  .  .  not good right now .  Economics, slightly better: Pakistan's economy has been growing in the last few years, although the per capita GDP by purchasing power is less than a thousand dollars a year .  To radically simplify that number, on average people in Pakistan live on less than three dollars a day .  The military ?  Strong .  Too strong, some might argue; the military is the only public institution in Pakistan that people trust .   And historically, the military likes to use that trust by throwing the occasional coup .   But basically the reason the people trust the military and they don't trust any other facet of the government is that the military in Pakistan does stuff .  Like for instance the military is trying to root out Taliban elements from the north-west part of Pakistan .   And even though that war is unpopular in Pakistan and seen as kind of un-winnable, people are still more likely to trust the military than anybody else because at least the military has, like, an agenda .  By the way, Hank, I don't know if you've noticed, but I isolated a piece of cheek-beard .  It's like a hairy dimple .  What else are governments supposed to do ?  Roads ?  The Pakistani government is not good at that .  Police forces ?  Boy, are they not good at that .  One of the big problems in Pakistan is that you can pass laws, there's just no way to enforce them .   And in Pakistan right now there's just no political leadership to change any of this .  The president of Pakistan is the widower of Benazir Bhutto, who, while certainly controversial, had at least some political talent and was therefore assassinated in late 2007 because the Pakistani Taliban is always killing talented politicians .  So now Pakistan has a president who's primary qualification is that he was once married to someone .   And then there's no one good waiting in the wings because, I mean, let's face it: would you want to be president of Pakistan, Hank ?  There's like a forty percent death rate .  The Discovery Channel should make a reality show about the dangers of that job .   And so this is the conundrum the rest of the world finds itself in: here is a nation, with nuclear weapons and a hundred eighty million people; a nation that borders both the world's largest democracy and one of the fastest growing countries in India and crazy-pants Afghanistan .  People want to help, but where do you start ?  Do you start with education or infrastructure or trying to limit corruption ?  Nobody knows, everyone's paralyzed, and in the meantime the Pakistani Taliban keep killing moderate political leaders .  So that's my non-rhetorical question for the day, Nerdfighters: where do you start ?   And now Hank, I announce your punishment .  I might just keep it like this .  So Hank, a mathematically inclined Nerdfighter figured out that the extra two seconds in the video for which you are being punished cost the community of Nerdfighteria a total of twenty six hours because it watched like fifty-five thousand times .  Well, Hank, we want our twenty six hours back .  In your home town of Missoula, Montana there is a Target .  That Target opens at eight o'clock in the morning .  You will be there when it opens, and you, my dear brother, will be there when it closes fifteen hours later, and in the interim, you will not leave the Target .  I wanted you to stay in the Target for the entire twenty six hours but apparently the Target in Missoula, Montana closes, which is unfortunate, so to make up for the eleven hour difference, you're going to have to do a second punishment .  While you're spending your fifteen uninterrupted hours in Target, you'll purchase a blender .  You will take that blender to the Target restaurant, where you will publicly blend the meal of your choice, and then eat it -- or drink it, depending on your perspective .  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .  Hmmmmmmm MUSTACHE !                 
Good morning Hank and welcome to my new camcorder .  It's Tuesday .  It's question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real nerdfighters !   Q: How long has the Project for Awesome been going on ?  A: This will be the third year .   Q: How do I get my girlfriend to love me more than Jacob Black ?  A: Okay, the first thing you want to is you want to see if your torso can be contorted into a V, because that's a helpful start .  Then, become really hairy .   But only sometimes .   Q: Wait, what is the Project for Awesome ?  How do I make a video and where do I post it ?  A: The Project for Awesome is an annual tradition in which lots of people make videos for charities they care about and then lots of other people rate and favorite and comment on those videos over and over and over again .  So that for one day the most popular videos on YouTube aren't about boobs or hamsters on piano but about decreasing worldsuck .  If you want to make a video, just make one advocating for your favorite charity, upload it on Thursday, and ideally find a way to make sure that the thumbnail of your video is this, which you can find at a link in the doobly-doo .   And then get your rating and commenting fingers ready for 48 hours of fun .   Q: This guy I really like wants my advice on how to ask out another girl .  What should I do ?  A: Alright, listen, this is gonna sound crazy, but I have a suspicion that the guy in question actually likes you .  I might be wrong about this, but boys commonly have this insane strategy wherein we tell the girl we like that we need advice on how to ask out a different girl .  I realize this is a colossally stupid strategy, but if you look in comments, I bet you'll see a lot of guys who are like,  " Yeah, I have done that .  "   Q: What time should I upload my project for awesome video ?  A: As close to noon eastern time as possible, which is 5pm GMT .   Q: How do I get a woman's attention to see if she likes me ?  We've been friends for a while, so my logical thought is that I should grow a mustache .  Am I far off ?  A: See, girls ?  That is how we think .  We're like,  " Maybe I should grow a mustache to get her attention .  "   Q: Wait, what can I do for Project for Awesome if I can't make a video ?  A: Okay, ninety percent of the Project for Awesome is not in making videos .  It's in commenting and rating upon videos .  There will be a live show that goes from Thursday at noon until Saturday morning .  We're gonna use that live show   to organize, to go from video to video to video, making sure that we get tons and tons of comments and ratings and favorites on each one .   And it will only work if there are a lot of us .  So come and spend as much of your Thursday and Friday as possible with Hank and me .  I promise it'll be fun .  If you like nerdy fun, which .  .  . let's face it .  .  . you do .   Q: How do I get my ex-girlfriend back ?  A: Read up on Buddhist non-attachment .  Link in the doobly-doo .   Q: How do I get the picture that I can download in the doobly-doo to be the thumbnail in my video ? A: Unfortunately, that's pretty hard .  We think we've cracked YouTube's algorithm .  You can find out more at projectforawesome . com, but if that doesn't work, just do your best .  Be creative about the thumbnail and remember that it can be a great Project for Awesome video even without the thumbnail .   Q: You have a lot of advice about guys and girls who want to find each other .   But what about gay people ?  A: Same advice, different pronouns .   Q: Any advice on how to make my Project for Awesome video good ?  A: Yeah, remember that you're not just talking about a charity, you're trying to advocate for that charity .  So try to be as creative and awesome as possible .  Also, you might want to find creative ways to encourage fundraising .  I, for example, will be auctioning off my one and only pair of nerd glasses, which I wore for most vlogbrothers videos in 2008 .   Q: What's the best way to tell a close friend that you're in nerdfighterlike with them ?  A: I would show them this video .  In fact, pause it right now, go get that person, and bring them back .  Hi there, this is John Green of the vlogbrothers .  You have a close friend in Nerdfighteria who, mm, kinda likes you .  No big deal !  Don't freak out .   And don't reveal anything .  Don't tell them what you're feeling yet .  Poker face .  P-p-p-p-p-p-p-p-poker face .  Think it through before you respond .   And remember, this isn't like some  " ohh, I can't live without you "  thing .  This is a  " I like you if you like me, but if you don't like me, that's cool .  Our friendship is wonderful and I don't want to put it in jeopardy "  thing .   But, ya know, if you're open to the idea, this person does think you're sort of adorable .   Q: What is the right age to start having sex ?  A: Mmm .  .  . 42 .   Q: Hey, the bookcase .  Is that different from your old bookcase ?  A: Yes, it is .   Q: Why'd you change where you film ?  A: Oh, there were a bunch of reasons .  The whole home re- holy snood, is that a crib ?  !  What is a crib .  .  .  ?  The yeti is gonna have a little yeti !  Winkitty !   Willy, what do you think about this whole baby business ?    I'm concerned .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Thursday, December 17th 2009, time for the Project for Awesome, hooray !    Whoa, ow !   I got too excited about the awesome .   And, no, as it happens, I'm not wearing any pants .  This is YouTube, not a country club .      The Project for Awesome is an annual event in which the YouTube community comes together to make videos about charities we care about, and then we rate and favorite and comment upon those videos to get them to rise to the top of the YouTube pile .  If you've made a Project for Awesome video go ahead and upload it as a response to this video .   But regardless of whether you've made a video, head over right now to livestream dot com slash ProjectForAwesome which for the next forty-eight hours will be your headquarters for awesome .   We're organizing the Project for Awesome through Livestream this year because even though it isn't perfect it allows everyone to be in the same room at the same time and all you need to chat is a Twitter account .  If you don't have a Twitter, get one, if you hate Twitter, just get one and then burn it in forty-eight hours .   So please hang out at the chat as much as possible, it allows us to organize our comments and rates and favorites so that a roving band of nerds can take over the largest entertainment website in the world .  Hank, nerdfighters, I'll see you in the comments of hundreds of videos in the next couple of days .   And now, my Project for Awesome video .   Hi, my name's John Green .  My wife and I are about to have our first baby, well I mean I guess, she's gonna have it .  I'm gonna stand there next to her and then faint .    And when I told everybody that we were gonna have a baby, a lot of people offered to get us a baby-warming present .   But our particular unborn baby is extremely well-equipped on the baby stuff front .  He's got a changing table, he's got a puppy, he's even got a train set .    But there is one thing that my unborn child does desperately want: an end to malaria .  You see, my unborn baby hates malaria .  In fact Sarah and I recently went in for an ultrasound and what they do is they put this wand on the stomach and you can see the baby and hear the heartbeat and you can also hear what the baby is saying .   So we were listening to the heartbeat for a while and then the ultrasound technician went up to the baby's mouth and the first words I heard my unborn baby say were, 'I hate malaria but there's nothing I can do about it because I'm stuck inside of an amniotic sac . '   But you and I aren't stuck inside of amniotic sacs so we can do something about malaria .   And to that end I'm gonna be auctioning off THESE, my nerd glasses, which I wore for almost every Vlogbrothers video in 2008 .  You can find a link to the auction in the sidebar, all proceeds go to malarianomore .  Also if you wanna get my baby a present, you can go to firstgiving dot com slash johnsbabyhatesmalaria and donate to malarianomore on behalf of my malaria-hating unborn child .  Nerd glasses, I'm gonna miss you, but I'm sure you're going to a nerdfightastic home .   Happy Project for Awesome and nerdfighters, DFTBA .  .  . M: Don't Forget to Beat All Malaria .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Sunday - what is today ?  Do you know what the date is ?  Sunday December 20th French the Llama that means I'm scheduled to have a baby in exactly one month !  Well actually as I said last time I'm not gonna have it, Sarah's gonna have it, but you know, I'm gonna be there, annoying her .  Being like, 'Does it hurt ?  Really ?  Is it bad ?  Is it like a wedgie ?  Well but is it like a worse version of a wedgie ? '  OK Hank today's video comes to you in two parts:  Part 1: Awesome Project is Awesome .   Hank the 2009 Project for Awesome has been the Awesomest Project for Awesome ever .  In fact Hank, according to my calculations, this year's Project for Awesome put three years worth of Awesome into 48 hours - but more on that in a second .   For the majority of the Project for Awesome the hashtag p4a was trending above the movie Avatar - Avatar, which cost two hundred fifty million dollars to make, was beaten by the Project for Awesome, which costs zero dollars .  There were more than two thousand Project for Awesome videos this year, and we commented on them more than a million times - ow, auugh .  Actually, this is not a joke .  I commented so much during that 48 hours that I hurt my left shoulder .   And Hank, the thousands of people who were following along the show on livestream and commenting and rating and favoriting like crazy ended up spending a combined three years rating and favoriting and commenting during the 48 hours of the Project for Awesome .   And all of - auugh I cannot gesticulate .  OK: only one armed gesticulation I wanna thank everyone who hosted the livestream show from Maureen Johnson to Natalie Tran to several of the Five Awesome Girls to Liz and Karen Kavett and Alan Fallofautumndistro .  I wanna thank everybody who rated and commented and favorited videos to get those videos about charity to a new audience .  I also wanna thank John Henzelmeyer who designed the 2009 Project for Awesome logo .   And most of all I wanna thank everybody who made a video .  From people with hundreds of thousands of subscribers like Lisa Nova and Shay Carl and KassemG to people with fewer than one hundred subscribers like Tom Tulack and Maddie Boosh .  This year we got thousands of comments and ratings on more Project for Awesome videos than ever before and next year we're going to do even better .  Now that we've brought attention to organizations that decrease World Suck, I hope all of you will join me in donating to some of our favorites .  I'm still figuring out which charities my thousand dollars is going to .   But remember if you want to get my baby a present you can do so at firstgiving . org/johnsbabyhatesmalaria .   And there are still several Project for Awesome items being auctioned off at eBay, including a nerdfighter who's auctioning off his bobblehead of me to benefit My Charity Water .  You can find all that and more links about how to continue the Project for Awesome's Awesome in the dooblydoo .   By the way do you remember like two minutes ago when I said French the Llama ?  I should probably explain that .  Hank as you know I'm not much of an expert at your internet memes .  Or meemees .  Moomoos .  I have trouble following along with the internet moomoos .   And so in comments I kept seeing people saying  " World Suck FTL !  "   And I was like  " What does FTL mean ?  "  Well it turns out it means for the lose, but a nerdfighter tricked me into thinking it means French the Llama .  Which is what it should mean .   And I think it should be an exclamation of amazement, like  " French the Llama, the square root of negative one is a letter ?  ?  ?  "   Hank, thank you for inventing the idea of the Project for Awesome and for all the work you did to make it happen, and I will see you on Tue- OH !  Part 2 !   It is December 20th which means it's almost the end of the year !   And at the end of auuugh !  Why do I keep forgetting how much it hurts to move ?  At the end of each year, the Vlogbrothers channel traditionally reinvents itself .  Which we're gonna do this year as well, Nerdfighteria, but we need help from you .  What do you want to see more of ?   And, just as important, what do you not wanna see anymore ?  Should we buy an island ?  Should we be more project based ?  More news ?  More funny ?  More interaction ?  Should I wear pants when I vlog ?  ?  Let us know in comments and please know that we take your comments seriously and we always read them all !  Well, I mean, except during the Project for Awesome .   Nerdfighters, I love you .  Hank, you're also pretty cool .  I'll see you on Tuesday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday and today I'm gonna answer Willy's questions about the American Health Care Reform Bill .   Well to start will you just explain what the Health Care Reform Bill is ?   Yeah but that's harder to do than you would think because there are actually two health care reform bills, one that passed the House of Representatives and one that passed the Senate .  For our purposes I'm mostly gonna talk about the Senate bill   .  Basically the bill regulates the insurance industry preventing it, for instance, from not insuring people who have pre-existing conditions and it creates a private based non-profit insurance exchange where people who don't have jobs or work for themselves or work for small businesses can go and get health insurance which will be subsidized by the federal government .     Okay but what if I have insurance through my job ?   You don't have a job .  You're a puppy .   But if you had a job nothing would change except arguably your premiums but more on that in a moment .   How many people is this new health bill going to cover ?   About 30 million Americans who are currently either uninsured or under insured would be covered under this bill .   What about pre-existing conditions ?   Under the Senate bill, by 2014 health insurance companies will no longer be able to exclude people with pre-existing conditions or charge higher premiums based on gender .  Because as a rule ladies are more expensive to insure than dudes because ladies like - I don't know if you guys know about this, this is crazy - but they have babies come out of their bodies .   And that is expensive .  Also .  .  .  wowzy .  So because insurance companies won't be able to charge women and people with pre-existing conditions more, it's possible the premiums for healthy relatively young men like myself might go up .   But it's possible that will be offset by the overall decrease in healthcare costs that comes from this federally subsidized insurance pool .   What's all this talk about funding abortions with federal money ?   No federal money will go to funding abortions .   But the exact mechanics of this are complicated enough that I can't explain them in the video and must explain them in the sidebar so go down there and read it .   Will this bill allow illegal immigrants to have access to health care in the United States ?   Well Willy I don't know if you should be asking that since you are a Scottish West Highland Terrier .  Don't tell the government that my puppy is a Scotsman !   But the answer is that illegal immigrants already get healthcare in America because as a rule emergency rooms don't turn people away .   How will this affect kids and what happens to me when I turn 18 ?   Because more adults who are uninsured will have access to health insurance, more children who are uninsured will have access to health insurance too .  The bill will also likely increase the age to which you can stay on your parents' healthcare to somewhere in the neighborhood of 27 .    But does the bill increase taxes ?   Yes it will likely increase the Medicare tax  . 9% on income over $200,000 per year - which means if you make $300,000 per year you'll pay about an extra $1,000 in tax .  It also dramatically increases the tax rate on so-called Cadillac health insurance plans, which most health care analysts think is a good idea because it will lower the overall amount of the Gross Domestic Product that we spend on healthcare .  Oh, also there's going to be a tax on indoor tanning .   You're kidding .   No I'm serious and actually it's a really good idea because people who tan indoors have a much higher chance of getting melanoma which is a very expensive disease, particularly if you get it young .  That's also why we tax cigarettes .   What's all this gonna do to the national debt ?   Well according to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office it's gonna cut the national deficit but whether that leads in turn to a cut in the national debt is largely dependent on whether we spend that money on something else .  Like, maybe before the 2010 election congress will vote to send every American a lollipop .   Did Nebraska Senator Ben Nelson sell his vote ?   Yes, he did, that's why he's wearing the Ass hat .   So under this bill, if you're eligible for insurance, do you have to get insurance ?   Yes, or pay a penalty which will eventually be $750 per person per year .   Wait, the government is making me get insurance ?  What about my freedom ?   Yeah I can understand why you're squeamish but most experts think it just won't work any other way, it's the same reason car insurance is mandatory .  The problem is that your stupid choices affect other people, including people I really care about .  .  .  like me .  Like if we get in a car accident you don't just mess up your car, you also mess up my car .  Similarly, if you don't have health insurance, you'll be less likely to seek preventative care and more likely to have higher overall lifetime health costs .  Which costs you might not pay because you might die or go bankrupt, forcing the hospital to pass along the cost of your care to me .   And 300 million other people .   But mostly me !   So Hank that's the Senate Health Care Bill as best I understand it .  If you have more questions about the health care bill, I'll try to answer them in comments .  Not in my pants .  Even though I'm pointing to my pants .   Willy says .  .  .  best wishes !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Monday, January 4th, 2010 .  I have a bit of a toothache today .  Actually, that's an understatement, I have a tooth-*cries*-why-does-it-have-to-hurt-so-bad ? So I'm gonna go to the dentist . So Hank, today I wanna talk about rules .  I've been thinking about rules a lot lately because the reason I have a tooth-*cries*-it-hurts-so-bad is because I failed to follow the rules of basic dental hygiene when I was in high school and college .  You see Hank, at the time, I believed that the rule that you have to brush your teeth at least twice a day was a conspiracy by the toothpaste companies created to sell more toothpaste .  Combined that with the fact that for 10 years I didn't go to a dentist  , and you get that terrible moment when in 2002 I finally went to a dentist only to learn that I had more cavities than I have teeth . That never gets old, but that does, it's like torture . So that was fun .  I have to get a root canal tomorrow, possibly two root canals if I'm lucky ! So my failure to follow the rules of dentistry is coming back to haunt me .  I had the same problem with math and many other things, like when I was in high school I believed that math was created arbitrarily for the purpose of making me suffer .  It never crossed my mind that the government was investing in my education because it's helpful to have citizens who know how to do long division . I thought that math was just a conspiracy by The Man to keep people like me down .  By the way I'm going to get lunch at Whole Foods .  I'm getting lunch-y, sushi for lunch . Of course it turns out that math is hugely helpful to adults, even if you write books for a living .   But even so Hank for much of my life I've had a terrible time following the rules because I have deep down believed that the rules are arbitrary and meaningless .  Like on some level it's always felt like I'm doing the 110m hurdles and I'm running and I'm hurdling and I'm running and hurdling and then I begin to think,  " This race would go so much faster if we just eliminated the hurdles .  "  I wonder if professional hurdlers ever think that, if they ever think,  " You know, this is fun but I could do it faster if we took out the hurdles .  "  No, of course they don't think that, because professional hurdlers have respect for the utility of rules ! Hank, rules are all that stand between us and chaos and endless root canals !  That's why I now brush my teeth regularly and that's why our video blog needs rules ! Rule number 1: Hank, every Monday, Wednesday and Friday for the entirety of 2010 you and I will make videos back and forth to each .  .  .    Well, that's a little bit weird . So you'll make a video on Wednesday, I'll make one on Friday, you'll make on on Monday, et cetera until the year is over .  With exceptions a) for major holidays and b) for my paternity leave, which will commence whenever the kid is born, which should be quite soon and will last about three weeks . Rule 2: These videos shall not exceed 4 minutes in length .  Except for the usual exceptions . Rule 3: Whoever has the Monday video can announce a theme for that week .  If there is a theme week announced   the videos for that week must be on that theme .  And lastly rule 4: if any of the three previous rules are broken, there will be a punishment .  Because Hank, in this world there are consequences, like root canals and not knowing how to do long division .  I know how to carry items, but I don't know how to carry numbers .  Punishments will be chosen by nerdfighters and the other brother and they must be completed within one week of being assigned .  Which by the way Hank, means that you have one week from today to spend 15 hours in a Target .   And I still owe a punishment as well, which you still haven't given me, but once you do I'll have a week to complete it . So Hank, them's the rules !  They exist to help us remember to be awesome .  Here's to a great year, Hank !    Aaaaowww, it hurts in my toof !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Friday, January 8, 2010 .  Last night our ancestral homeland returned to its rightful place among the states .  Alabama may be 48th in education, but we are first in football played by people enrolled at educational institutions .  YES !  Hank, I want to take a moment to thank the Yeti for heroically not going into labor during the game last night .  Although now I kinda hope she does go into labor before next Wednesday so I don't have to get on the Frog Hopper until after my paternity leave .  I don't wanna get on the Frog Hopper .  It's scary !  Hank, today I wanna talk about Gus, who is a bug; but first I have to congratulate you on spending 15 hours in Target without going insane or getting arrested - a feat that is hardly ever even accomplished by Target employees .  However Hank, having watched you do this, I feel compelled to point you to a 2008 study about hand dryers   .  That study shows that using a hand-dryer after you wash your hands leads to you having way more bacteria on your hands than if you just don't wash them at all .  However, that study didn't have anything to say about pumping that disgusting air directly into your mouth, so I'm sure you'll be fine .   But just know that if you happen to get esophageal herpes, that's why .  Right, so about Gus .  Hank, a few months ago I asked Nerdfighters to find my favorite book from childhood, which I told them was called Gus is a Bug; and then they did find it despite the significant hurdle of it actually not being called Gus is a Bug .   But Hank, what Nerdfighters didn't know at the time was that by finding Gus is a Bug, they were actually giving me a baby warming present .  I loved that book so much as a kid, that I wanna give it to my baby .  I couldn't find it anywhere, because it wasn't called Gus is a Bug, so I turned to the Nerdfighters for help .   And then, Nerdfighters started illustrating their own versions of Gus is a Bug, which frankly, I like even more than the original .  So with the help of many Nerdfighters, I put together this video book for my baby, which will someday be the baby's introduction to the awesomeness of Nerdfighteria .  Gus is a Bug, by Nerdfighteria .  Gus is a bug .  Gus has fuzz .  Gus runs and runs and runs .  Gus has fun in the mud .  Gus nips a bud .  Yum, yum .  Gus rubs his fuzz .  Gus rubs and rubs .  Gus has a nap .  Gus naps and naps .  Gus is up .  Gus tugs and tugs .  It is Gus !  Gus has no Fuzz !  I wanna thank all the Nerdfighters who made illustrations of Gus - I'm sorry I couldn't include more of them .   And I want to thank you all for having the decency not to abuse  " Gus rubs his fuzz .  Gus rubs and rubs, "  in a way that you might have .  I would also like to thank the Nerdfighter who made this illustration: Gus is not a bug, Gus is a Danaus Plexippus larva .  Thanks for keeping me honest and reminding me that smart is cooler than cute .  Hank, DFTBA .  I'll see you on Monday .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Wednesday .  I really liked your ecosystem services video on Monday and I learned a lot, but at one point in attempting to gently rib me you experienced what I believe sociologists refer to as  " epic fail .  "  Let's go to the tape .  " You, on the other hand, have some sort of froufy Bachelor of Arts degree .  I don't even know what it's in .  "  " Froufy ?  "  Hank, what's  " froufy ?  " By the way, I'm on my way to pick up my friend Chris so I can go to X-Scape and get on the Frog Hopper .  " Froufy, "  I regret to inform you, is not a word .  I think you might've meant  " frou-frou, "  a French word meaning frilly ornamentation, something you might've learned if you'd taken more fine arts classes . Anyway, later in that same video you jokingly said  " You can teach me that the big billboard in the Great Gatsby was like God or something .  " DUNDUNDUNNNNNNN .  Now Hank, unfortunately you can't actually hear anything that happened in X-scape because along with the sound of my girlish screaming there was the mellifluous tones of Lady Gaga, and Lady Gaga loves her copyright .  But about that billboard, Hank, it isn't actually the billboard that's a metaphor for God .  Okay, hold on .  Just a little bit of girlish screaming .    The metaphor for God is the disembodied bespectacled eyes depicted on that billboard . Hank, as I mentioned last week, when I was growing up I felt that mathematics was just this arbitrary set of rules that had been created for the express purpose of hurting my feelings, and when a lot of people read literature critically they feel similarly .  They think,  " Why are we even talking about this ?  "   " Who knows if the author intended it ?  "   " All you're doing is wasting our time .  "  I would argue that the study of English literature is not near so boring and inconsequential as masters of science like you would have us believe . Oh, God, it felt so good to get off that Frog Hopper .  By the way, the girl operating the Frog Hopper said that I was the biggest guy she'd ever seen on it .  Thanks ? Anyway, what's interesting about the metaphor of the huge eyes is not the metaphor itself but its implications .  So, in The Great Gatsby a number of very important plot elements happen directly beneath the gaze of these gigantic bespectacled eyes .  Also, at the end of the book, the only person who's there for Gatsby other than Nick and Gatsby's father is Owl Eyes, a character we know nothing about except that he has big eyes and glasses .  Also, he is God . Hank, I'm happy to acknowledge that none of that is inherently interesting .   But it is interesting to think about justice and fairness and the way that socioeconomic class shape our understandings of justice .   And it's interesting to think of God as two huge disembodied eyes with glasses .  Because what do eyes do ?  They see .  Good job, smarty pants .  What else do they do ?  Mmm .  .  .  they blink ?  Not when they're making videos, they don't .  Yeah, I guess eyes don't really do much other than .  .  .  see .  And that, in the broader context of the novel, is very interesting .  No spoilers here, but if you've read The Great Gatsby and possibly even if you haven't, you might've noticed that life isn't always fair and sometimes bad people don't get what's coming to them .   And that, in fact, wealth and social standing can significantly improve your chances of not getting what's coming to you .   And it's a huge challenge to live in this unjust world without, to borrow a line from Nick,  " closing out your interest in the aborted sorrows and the short-winded elations of men .  " Hank, I think in those disembodied eyes Fitzgerald is arguing that God is in the seeing business, but he's not in the doing business .  I think the question of to what extent the universe or God is aware of, and interested in, the aborted sorrows and short-winded elations of man is a very interesting question .  And we see people who haven't read The Great Gatsby closely doing a poor job of thinking about this stuff all the time .  Like, for instance, just today the televangelist Pat Robertson was trying to make sense of why a God who is active in the world would allow the worst possible earthquake in the worst possible place on Earth .   And he said that a while ago, Haitians made a deal with the Devil, and now they were gettin' their payback .  Well, obviously that's stupid, Hank .  But I would argue that stupidity is born out of bad reading, bad teaching, and bad thinking .   And what I think a liberal arts education does well is it teaches you what to think about .  What I love most about reading critically is the same thing I love most about math .  It helps me to learn what's interesting .   And it forces me to grapple seriously and complexly with a world that is not as it should be . In short, Hank, I would argue that it's because I have a liberal arts education and because I've spent time thinking about the eyes on that billboard that I'm able to listen to you talk for four minutes about something I don't understand yet .  Also, I get to know the meaning of the word frou-frou . I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Monday, January 18th .  Which means, you know .  Any day now .   Today we're going to talk about fatherhood because that's all I'm thinking about .   So Hank, obviously, I'm very excited about the prospect of being a father .   But to be totally honest, sometimes I think I'm not, entirely qualified .  For example, I don't even remember to shave everyday .  Also, I'm pretty lazy .  Not in the sense that I don't want to work hard, but in the sense that I don't move much .   Also, our father is like a really awesome father .  Like he's done a great job and he's always been proud of us and supportive .   And he's made tons of sacrifices for us and he can do all that dad stuff like .  .  . woodworking .   I'm not a good woodworker .     It's a hard example to live up to, but on the other hand, I'm lucky to even have that example .   The other thing about our dad, Hank, is that Dad can always answer those questions that kids have about the nature of the world like 'Why is the sky blue ? ' Whereas I can not answer those questions, even though Dad has explained it to me like a thousand times .   So when my kid asks that, I'm either going to say 'I don't understand it, it's very complicated, call Grandpa' or I'm going to say 'The sky is blue because in space there are these gigantic blue birds like pterodactyls and they poop blue and cover the atmosphere with blue .  .  . Except when they're sick and they poop grey and that's why clouds are grey . '  And he's gonna be a terrible science student because he's gonna believe deep down that there are these birds orbiting the world whose poop affects the color of our sky .   And I will be a failure .    But Hank, deep down the nature of impending fatherhood is that you are doing something you're unqualified to do and then you become qualified while doing it .  Which is in some ways analogous to writing and publishing a novel; although in this case, the novel is a person who will grow up, and if you mess up, will require a lot of expensive therapy .     That's the sound that my anxiety makes .   Anyway, Hank, when I start to feel anxious about my impending fatherhood, I remind myself of one important fact .  I am not the first organism ever to face parenthood and many of them have been much less qualified than I have .  I mean, Hank, right now, Willy could have seven kids .    Thank you for the licks .   I mean, if we hadn't cut his balls off .    And Hank, I think that we can agree that Willy, while he is inarguably adorable, is not well-qualified to be a dad .  For one thing, he's an idiot .   Hey Willy, what's the square root of four ?  What do you have to multiply by itself to get four ?    No, the answer is not licks .  The answer is two .     So I'll be okay .  Although I do need to start shaving more .    And Hank, I'm comforted by the knowledge that even though my baby will have a doofus for a father, he's gonna have an awesome mom, and an awesome Uncle Hank and Aunt Katherine .  Hank, DFTBA, I'll see you on Wednesday .   Oh, and sometime if you can, I'd love it if you make a video for me that answers all those questions that kids ask .  You know, why is water wet, why do platypi lay eggs, why is the sky blue .  So that after the baby is, you know, born and reaches the age of curiosity, I won't look like an idiot .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Friday .  And for those of you who don't know me, my name is Maureen Johnson, and I am going to be filling in for John Green while he's off, uh .  .  .  being a father .  So you're going to be staring at my face, for the next few days, few weeks or months, if you don't know who I am, I am a friend of John's, a fellow YA author, best known to any of you nerdfighters probably as the person who originated the joke, uh, in your pants, uh .  .  .  and you may also know me by my most common title, which is uh .  .  .  second prettiest Green brother .  But really what I am is the Conan to John's Leno because he's just giving me the show and he's just going to take it right back from me . Really, he picked me because I'm not very good at videos and he just wants you to want him to come back .  I mean, I don't know anything about making videos .  The only thing I've learned watching John and Hank is that you're supposed to move your chair every once in a while, so I'm just going to do that for like .  .  .  I don't know .  .  .  two hours ?  How long are these videos ?  Two hours ?  I don't .  .  .  I assume they're two hours, right ?  Good .  So .  Because that's how long this one's going to be . Honestly, this wouldn't really even be an issue if John just could, you know, keep it .  .  .    in his pants . I had to say it at some point . Anyway, if you have any comments about my performance, because I, I really want to do a good job, and you know, a sort of, kind of,  " how's my driving "  thing, uh, don't even bother sending them to here because I'm not going to go through their mail .  Um, send them to me on twitter .  I'm just maureenjohnson, all one word, and uh .  .  .  I'll read them .  So if you want to say,  " I like your style "  or you know .  .  .   " you're doing a great job, "  or,  " YOU SUCK !  I HATE YOUR FACE !  "  or something like that, that'd be great .  You send them to me there, and I'll read them . So anyway, the John that you know, uh, and love, uh .  .  .  You know, he's sort of like the John that I know and love, but there's another side of John that I feel like I can, I can really help you explore in this, you know, in our time together, and uh, as it happens, luckily enough, I have a little footage that I shot of him, uh, while he was here, uh, before he moved, and I put it together in a little video I think you'll .  .  .  you know .  .  .  a little homage, homageee, uh, to John, that I think you're going to enjoy . John Green: some actual footage AHHHHHHH Actual John Green He's so Dangerous Nerdfightin' all the time He's contagerous Pwnin' all the haterz With his tromboneswrestlin' alligators He's like a time bomb Whatcha Gonna Do All you Decepticons ? Better run and Hide .  .  . He's got his Puff on !  And you know what he likes Tiny elephants !  Where's he store all his stuff ? He's got it in his pants . Actual John Green Actual John Green                
Good Morning, Hank .  It's Wednesday .  It actually, no, actually it is Wednesday .  I was gonna say it's actually Tuesday, and I'm recording this on Tuesday night because I'm about to take a plane to London, and I'm packing, and I'm like sort of up in the middle of the night, and I was gonna say it was actually Tuesday, but it is actually Wednesday now .   And it's like 2:30 in the morning, and I am recording my video because I am not going to get punished .  If you're expecting anything that's even remotely as complicated as, as you saw on Friday, what I need you to do is now to reach into your tube screens, and you just turn your expectation meters down .  Keep turning them down, down, and down because there's no such nonsense this week .  Things are just crazy here; they're nuts .  So I wanna thank you all because I've been reading your comments on the last video, and they are really, really great .   And a lot of people had a lot of constructive criticism about things, like the incredibly apocalyptic lighting and things like that .   And I'm trying to fix that this week, and I hope that it's a lot better .   But I did notice in reading through the comments that 80% of the comments contained one thing in common that I realize is the thing that YouTube has in common with little baby Henry Green .  Namely that you are both very, very interested in boobs .  The most common comment was,  " Oh, my god .  I didn't know John Green had boobs .  Did you know John Green had boobs ?  Oh, my god .  John Green had boobs .  When did John Green get boobs ?  "  You guys, the man just had a baby .  Come on .  .  .  You gotta expect that .  So, I was in the New York Times this week .  My picture was in it, and it turns out that I was centerfold in the front Global page or whatever .   And it was totally this weird flukey thing that happened that I feel like I really have to, kind of explain .  You see, earlier, sort of like at the end of last year, I convinced my publisher that it would be a really, really awesome idea to give away free e-books of my book, Suite Scarlett .  Four, in like a couple weeks, whatever we could possibly manage .  Because I think that there's a huge benefit to giving away free books and materials whenever possible .  Because, like John, I think the coming revolution of e-books and all of these other ways that books can be delivered and distributed to people is going to radically change the way we read .   And we have to embrace it .  Because if all the rumors are true, then today Apple will be announcing the Apple tablet .   And not since the time of Moses has humanity been this excited about the appearance of a tablet .  I, myself, am pretty excited about it .  I'm probably going to buy one .   But, of course, I'm not going to buy one on the first day because you know whenever they put these new products out, there's always something wrong with them .  Like they accidentally include a button that blows up the moon or something .   And also, free books are kind of good, you know ?  Like those big buildings where they keep them, and people can go in and check them out and, like, read them for no cost .  What are they called again ?  Oh, right, libraries: the building blocks of society .  There's all kinds of good stuff going on there .  Anyway, I had all these really, really good ideas, but then something went terribly, terribly wrong in the middle of the interview .   And do you want to know why ?  Because in the middle of the interview, I got distracted 'cause I looked over and noticed my Rob Pattinson Annual for 2010 .  Never make a Rob Pattinson to the New York Times .  Because no matter what else you say, they will only quote you on the Rob Pattinson joke no matter what it is you were talking about .  I've been warned about this .  People tell me that whenever you do an interview no matter what it is you say, you can say purely brilliant things for an hour, they will only quote you on the stupidest thing you say .   And this turns out to be 100% true .  Because I have to wrap this up really quickly .  Like, I've got my suitcases behind me, and, and I've got a book due .  I'm finishing Thirteen Little Blue Envelopes, too .   And I've got Scarlett Fever coming out on Monday, and there's craziness going on .  I want to quickly address the problem of what Hank should name his dog .   And I think that the answer has already been clearly provided by YouTube, and all of you have spoken .   And I've asked you, and the conclusion is that, Hank, you should name your dog Boobs .  Because, seriously, how awesome would it be to have a dog named Boobs ?  'cause you could get away with, like, tons of stuff .  You could go in the park and be like,  " Come here, Boobs .  Who's a good, oh, such a Boobs .  Such Boobs .  I'm looking for Boobs .  Boobs ?  Anyone seen Boobs ?  "  You can do so much .  If you don't name your dog Boobs, I think you're going to be letting Nerdfighteria down .   And that's all I have to say about that matter, Hank .  Hank .  I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Monday .   And you may not be able to tell this from the fact that I'm just sitting in front of a radiator and a wall, but I'm in England .  Today's a really really big day for me .  Uh, it's kind of actually an enormous day because today, my book, Scarlett Fever, goes on sale everywhere .  Well, a lot of places, mostly America, but that's a really big deal and what am I doing to celebrate ?  I'm sitting in a little room .    My God .  Oh my God .  No .  You know, every deadline brings with it its own special magic .  In the same way that the poisonous fugu fish brings its special magic to certain lucky diners .  I'm not complaining, mind you .  I'm just externalizing my interior monologue .  Now, you may be asking yourself,  " Maureen, you're a professional writer .  What do you need deadlines for ?  Isn't the book just done when you're done writing ?  "  Without deadlines, only about three authors I've ever met would ever turn anything in, because the book's never done, you're always still working on it .  It's only done when they pry it from your cold, half-dead hand and even then it's not done, because you wanna still keep working on it and there's mistakes in it and there's stuff you wanna change .   But the thing is that, if you're in publishing, they have to sort of draw a line under it and say  " GIVE ME THE BOOK .  "  Deadline this week is for the sequel to Thirteen Little Blue Envelopes and it's, uh, the draft is due on Friday .  Um, so, that's why I gotta sit in this little tiny room, b-but that's fine because, as it happens, I like sitting in little tiny rooms writing .  Oh my God .  Most of the time .  Because, that is, I'm a writer and that is, this is the whole job .  You sit in a room, and, and write .  .  . that's, and if you don't like that, then you shouldn't do it .  In fact, a lot of times people ask me, you know,  " Maureen, should I be a writer ?  Is that a good career path ?  Is that something I should be ?  "   And you know what, my answer is, it's not actually a career path at all .  It's crazy, it's like being a driftwood sculptor, or an interpretive dancer .  Trust me, I am shocked and thrilled every day that I get to do this for a living .  Not that many people do .  It's incredibly awesome and I'm very very lucky, but also, I'm not gonna lie to you, it's a lot of work, it's an actual job .  A lot of teenagers write to me and say,  " I wanna write a book, I wanna get published, "  and those are two very different things .  For the first one, that you wanna write a book, I think, is an excellent idea and you should totally do that, because teenagers who want to write: you should be writing, you should be writing all the time, like a maniac .  Don't worry about the second bit just yet, because A .  You need a lot of practice .  You need to do it for--I'm not kidding--years .   And then, once you are published, it's a business, it's a job .  Plus, every author I know was that teenager, who sat in their room and read, and wrote .  That's who becomes an author, but that's what you have to do, for a while, before you become an author .  Plus, you haven't properly learned how to procrastinate yet .  It takes years and years of experience to gain the level of mastery required to become a professional author because, let me tell you, we are exceptionally good at it .  For example, you will be tested on your ability to make a fort .  I made this one in under thirty seconds, but that's because I am a professional .  If you have any questions about writing or the publishing process, you can leave them in these comments or send them to me on Twitter, and maybe I can answer them in my video on Friday, which will probably be my last .  Until then, I hope you enjoy Scarlett Fever if you have it, and Hank, I'll see you on Wednesday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's FRIDAY !   And I'm still locked in the little room .   But I'm not actually locked in it anymore because I turned in my draft at one o'clock in the morning, last night, and I'm free .  .  . ish today .  Maybe some of you have gone through this feeling when you finish something really big, and you turn it in and then you have no idea what to do with yourself right away, you feel like you've been hit on the head with a plank and you just sort of go: uhh-UHHHHHHHH .  Euhhhhhh ?  That's, that's basically where I'm at today .  Anyway, a lot of you had questions about writing, and you left 'em in the comments, and I thought today I was gonna do some QUESTIONS !  So let's get right to it .  Question:  " I really wanna write, but I'm afraid that I suck .  How can I get over this fear that I suck ?  "  Okay, I'm gonna tell you something that's going to run contrary to what you normally think as Nerdfighters .  As Nerdfighters, you want to decrease WorldSuck .   But what I'm going to tell you today is that you should DARE .  TO SUCK .  Let me let you in on a little secret .  When you are learning to write, you are going to suck .  You are going to suck a lot .  You're just going to keep sucking for a while, and you're going to feel like you're sucking and actually that's a sign that you're completely on the right path, because when you are learning things, you suck at them .  Imagine you went down the street and you bought a violin, you wouldn't just bring it home and automatically say to all your friends,  " Hey, I bought a violin !  You wanna hear me play ?  "  No, you would go and you would practice for like eight to ten years and then you would be like,  " Hey, I'm playing at Carnegie Hall, look at me go .  "  You have to suck first .  There are some things that you really aren't supposed to suck at, like, for example, I really suck at crossing the street at roundabouts in England .  I mean, if you suck at that, that can have serious consequences .  Writing, there are no real serious consequences to sucking .  You know, you don't have to be afraid that the first thing you turn out is gonna be a huge masterpiece or it's gonna be that big novel that makes a billion zillion dollars .  Don't worry about that, don't worry that it's not good, nobody--that's the great thing about writing and not publishing right away, is that you can write TONS of stuff that SUCKS .  This is precisely why when people write to me when you're, you know, 16 and 17 and 18 and you say, y'know,  " I've written a book, I write stories all the time, I wanna publish them, how can I do that ?  "  I say,  " NO, don't do it, "   ,  " stop, "  because you haven't sucked enough yet .  You may be thinking,  " No, I really do, I really really do suck, no, I think you're underestimating how much I suck, Maureen, "  but I'm not .  You haven't sucked looong and hard enough, and I--did I just actually say that ?  Trust me, sucking is not just a part of the learning process, it's part of the professional process as well .  First drafts, like the one I turned in at one o'clock this morning, basically exist .  .  . to suck .  They're wrong; they're the first pass, they're my first attempt at the story .   And they are going to get changed and ripped apart .  I mean, lots of writers I know--we, we sit and we laugh about the incredible SUCKTITUDE of our first drafts, but you have to go there and you have to try stuff out, and you have to suck at it sometimes .  Have you heard this phrase,  " writing is rewriting "  ?  Well, it's a hundred percent true, you don't just write something once and then you're done; you write it and it sucks, and then you write it and write it like 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, whatever times, and THEN you're done and it goes from  " suck "  to  " sortofkindofsuck " , then it kind of goes all the way to  " awesome "  .   And that's the journey: it goes from  " suck "  to  " awesome "  .  There are some other bits, but that is more or less it .  It's g--it's good to say it out loud, say it with me now, it feels good .  One, two, three:  " I give myself permission to SUCK .  "  On a brief administrative note, John has, uh, let me know that he is going to give, uh, Henry another week before he makes him go out and get a job, so I will be filling in for John on Wednesday, but he'll be coming back after that so .  .  . one more week, I hope you can, I hope you can last that long .  So .  Hank, I'll see you on Monday .                 
Good morning Hank .  It's Monday !  Good morning uncle Hank .  It's Monday .  Yay Henry !  Henry, show him the puff .  Oh !  Very puffy !  So, Hank, you'll never know where I'm going this morning, unless you guessed the dentist .  This seems like good weather for vlog driving .  So, Hank, the other day I saw this tweet from Amanda Bynes .  Right, Hank, so now that I'm home and my mouth hurts, it occurs to me belatedly that among your abundant charms is that you can probably name all six types of quarks, but probably don't know who Amanda Bynes is .  Look, Hank .  He's already reading !  Reading pictures .  Amanda Bynes is an American movie actress who I apparently follow on twitter .  Yes, I am ashamed .  So the other day Amanda Bynes tweets, " I hate it when people say I said things that I didn't say .  Stop putting words in my mouth .  "  Then, less than 24 hours later, she tweets, " Your imagination is your preview of life's coming attractions .  Albert Einstein .  "   And, Hank, in that tweet Amanda Bynes committed the most common sin on the internet .  Confusing you're and your ?  No .  Exposing yourself on Chatroulette ?  No !  Misquoting Albert Einstein !  Much to my continuing annoyance, the internet fails to appreciate the fact that Albert Einstein was a physicist, not a quotation generation machine .  So, less than 24 hours after Amanda Bynes complains that she's being misquoted all of the time, she misquotes someone else .  People who make their lives public will be misquoted .   And, if they don't like that they should make their lives private .   And that's reason one of three why you won't see a ton of your nephew Henry in the forthcoming video blogs .  I mean, it's not like you're gonna see none of him, but I want the choice of whether he has a private life to be his .  Also, number two: Hank, I don't know if this happened to you, but when I was in high school whenever I took a girlfriend home to meet mom,  , the first thing mom did was pull out a photo album of baby pictures .   And she would bring the girl over and she would literally be like, " Look at that little baby .  Wasn't he cute ?  Look at his tiny little penis .  I'm telling you when he came out of my body I said 'Are you sure that's a boy ? ' "  Meanwhile, in the background I'd be like, " Hi, uh Mad-Eye Moody .  This is John Green .  I I'm gonna need disillusionment charm .  ASAP .  "  Anachronism .  What ?  Anachronism .  There were no disillusionment charms when you were in high school .  Harry Potter hadn't been published .  You're an anachronism version of me talking to me from a slightly different angle .  So, Hank, I don't want to tell embarrassing stories about Henry that instead of reaching an audience of one girlfriend reach an audience of like,you know, lots .  Right, so that reason number three: Hank, you are a nerdfighter, and I am a nerdfighter, and nerdfighters, you are nerdfighters, but not everyone watching this video is a nerdfighter .  You know how I know, Hank ?  Because sometimes we get YouTube messages like this one which I swear I am not making up .  I'm not gonna tell you his username   so that you don't spam him .   " Hello hi friend plz upload hot videos like kisses and other .  also plz upload hot videos about animals .  ok ?  "    Mmm .  Okay isn't the first adjective that comes to mind .  Hank, the funniest thing about this message is not that its sender wants us to upload hot videos like kisses and other .  The funniest thing to me is that this YouTube user appears to be under the impression that there are currently an inadequate number of videos on YouTube featuring kisses and other .   And he thinks the only way to rectify this problem is to reach out to the Vlogbrothers .  Hank, call me crazy, but I don't want that guy seeing too much of your nephew .  Hank, Henry is awesome .  He loves his aunt Katherine's quilt .  Thank you for the video you made .  Thank you to Maureen for being Actual John Green so actually .  Nerdfighters, thanks for everything .  We love you guys so much .  If you have any questions about the baby, I'll try to answer them in comments .  Hank, I'll see you on Wednesday .  Shh .  Henry is sleeping like a champion .                 
*groans loudly* Hank, the tiny chickens are inside my head, and they are breeding .  The problem is that as the tiny chickens breed they can't get out, so they're just filling up my head with pain .   But Hank, I do want to talk to you today about something I've been thinking about a lot: going with your gut .  Which I am opposed to .  Okay Hank, so the other day I was changing Henry's diaper, and I don't know if you know this about babies, but, uh, when you're changing their diapers, sometimes they will urinate or defecate, because they think it's funny .   And I'm just getting the new diaper on when this fountain of pee just erupts !   And in that moment, I thought to myself,  " What am I going to do about this ?  "  At which point a dumb little voice inside of me said,  " Go with your gut .  You have good parental instincts .  "   And what my gut told me to do was to cup my hands where the fountain of pee was landing and just gather the urine in my cupped hands .  Which I did, and it worked great .   And then I'm standing there with two handfuls of urine, and Hank, as you know, the human hand is not really meant to be a waterproof cup, so I'm kinda walking it around and it's dribbling all over my feet .   And then I start screaming,  " Sarah !  Sarah !  There's pee all in my hands !  "   And she says,  " Well, just drop it !  "  At which point I basically drop poor Henry's pee on poor Henry's pee-pee .  Stupid gut .  Whereas, if I'd used my nerd brain I would've grabbed the diaper I was about to use, put it over the fountain, and solved the problem right then .  The other reason I don't go with my gut is that when my gut isn't giving me bad advice, it only tells me one thing: EAT .  By the way, Hank, just for future reference, I'm counting on you and the Nerdfighters to let me know when I get fat .   And you /failed/ on that front .  I mean, sure, there were hints .  A few days ago a Nerdfighter said that I looked like the lead singer of the Barenaked Ladies .  *picture appears on screen* Really ?  Also, there was a hilarious recent YouTube comment - I won't share the username - but in a thread about whether you or I was hotter someone said,  " John is like your smart uncle, and Hank is like your hot cousin .  "  *laughs* You're a hot cousin !  By the way, Nerdfighters, just a quick piece of advice .  Your relationship with your smart uncle and your hot cousin should be the same: platonic .   But anyway, Hank, I am not a subtle person .  When I am fat you need to tell me  " John, you're fat !  "  Instead, I had to go to the doctor a month ago and step on the scale and find out that for the first time since I was like, eight, there is a new first number in my weight .  So in addition to having tiny chicken disease for the last two weeks, I've been on a cleanse .  Yes, I follow Amanda Bynes on Twitter, I read Gwyneth Paltrow's newsletter, and I'm on a cleanse .  So far I've lost twelve pounds, can you tell ?  Can you see it in the face at all ?   And I can lose another two pounds just by getting a haircut .  Anyway, the reason I'm losing weight is because I am /not/ listening to my gut, because my gut right now is like,  " Feed me !  I will eat this, feed me that, that's fine, it looks like it has some carbs in it .  "  *noms on My Little Pony*  But my brain knows that I can't eat this My Little Pony, even though it would be delicious, not only because it would be caloric, but also because it's the only My Little Pony in the world with a Black Santa and a license plate from Gutshot, Tennessee .  Poor My Little Pony didn't make any jokes about Looking For Alaska .  So Hank, the world can go on celebrating emotionalism and gut instincts, but I'm going to be a Nerdfighter by getting fit and avoiding pee with my brain .  Hank, I'll see you on Monday .  *makes a terrible screech-y dying sound*                
Good morning Hank, it's Wednesday February 24, and this is the view out of my front window . So Hank, as you know, today has been a tough day, I'm worried about a friend of mine, I was going to tell a ribald story about Red Green, the Miniature dachshund we grew up with .  We called him Red Green because, A, we got him at Christmas, and B, he was red .  I'm not really in the mood to tell that story, instead I want to talk about my weight loss, my cleanse, and how much I love nerdfighters .   So my childhood story is I used to be skinny, and then, despite all the happy dancing, I gained weight .  In fact technically, Hank, since that photo was taken in 1995, I've gained 63 pounds .  Now Hank, I'm happy to admit that I needed to gain the first maybe 20, but the last 43 were strictly optional . Now Hank, you may remember in my last video I said:  " By the way, Hank, just for future reference, I'm counting on you and the Nerdfighters to let me know when I get fat, and you failed on that front .  " Well Hank, as usual, it turns out the problem was not Nerdfighteria, but my underestimating  Nerdfighteria .  Because in November of 2009 a Facebook group was founded, and that Facebook group was called  " JOHN GREEN IS FAT .  "  So it wasn't that Nerdfighters didn't tell me I was fat, I just wasn't listening . Hank, John Green Is Fat is one of the great Facebook groups of all time and its members have gone to extraordinary lengths to find every picture of me in which I look as fat as possible . Here I am bragging about how I just ate a box of Cheez-Its .  That's a picture from my friend   that was taken as I walked out of 7-11 at 3:30 in the morning .  There I am eating pizza, and there's me eating a taco wrapped in a pizza .   Yello .  Nah, I'm at the Pizza Hut .  No, I'm at the Taco Bell .  I'm at that combination Pizza Hut and Taco Bell .  Oh, and Hank, then there's this picture, which is me during the five seconds I had a moustache with the word  " pizza "  underneath my face .  I don't know why I love that, but I know I want it as a shirt .   So Hank, I want to thank the Nerdfighters for providing all that convincing and humiliating evidence that my puff was descending into my body .   And the long and short of it is that since Henry's been born, I've lost almost 15 pounds .   But Hank, I don't want you to worry about me and think I'm on some crash diet or something, I'm eating a lot every day, I'm just not eating, you know, french fries .   And I started running, well, my version of running in which sometimes I am passed by people who walk fast .   Nerdfighters I'm sorry for wrongly accusing you of failing to point out my pudginess .  Keep the humiliation coming in comments it motivates me .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .   Mmm .  .  .  Pizza .  .  .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Monday .  Sorry about the hoarseness, but the tiny chickens have migrated down into my throat .  Hank, you'll notice that I am apologizing to you for my husky voice, but I am not apologizing to our female viewers .  To them I say,  " You're welcome .  " Okay Hank, in important Nerdfighteria news, Ningmaster Tom is conscious .  He has been able to speak to his family, but he still has a long way to go in his recovery, and we're going to be there with him as a community on that entire journey .  Nerdfighters, you can go to the Ning to see a letter from Tom's family about how much they appreciate your letters .  Keep those letters coming to NINGMASTERTOM@GMAIL . COM, and if you want to participate in a collab video for Tom, you can click here .  .  .  On my hand . So Hank, more on Tom in a minute, but yesterday I was watching the closing ceremonies of the Olympic Games, and it was just getting to the awesome part, the part with giant, inflatable beavers .  Off topic, but someone should write a novel called,  " Giant Inflatable Beavers .  "   .  .  .  in your pants .   And as I was watching those giant inflatable beavers, there was suddenly a Bob Costas voice-over, and he was like,  " and now, time for the Marriage Ref .  "  Which if you don't live in America, is a new television show .  It's the closing ceremonies of Jerry Seinfeld's career .  Alright Hank, because I know you didn't see the show, I'm going to summarize it for you in twenty seconds . A married couple who are the kind of people who desire to be on reality shows and therefore unlikeable, have a disagreement .  Let's say one of them wants to stuff their dead dog and the other one wants to bury it .  The couple introduces us to their disagreement, three Hollywood celebrities make some jokes and then decide the winner of the argument .  Spoiler alert: the dog gets buried . Hank, aside from being astonishingly unfunny, the Marriage Ref is also profoundly insulting to Americans .  It's condescending, aggressively anti-intellectual and wrongly supposes that Americans want advice from celebrities .  Celebrities, we don't want your advice, we want your break-ups and your nipple slips . That's not why I am shouting myself hoarse about the Marriage Ref though, Hank .  Here's my problem .  Jeff Zucker, the head of NBC Universal,   .  Is fond of saying in interviews that YouTube is great for looking at pictures of squirrels on trampolines .  In fact he has said, advertisers have been clear, they don't want their ads next to cats on skateboards . Dude, you're spending millions of dollars on programming about dog taxidermy .  One could argue that your house is not perfectly equipped for stone throwing . You know what, Jeff Zucker ?  You're right .  Advertisers find you more attractive than they find me .  Although that might change when they hear my husky voice .   But the difference between NBC and Nerdfighteria is that Nerdfighteria is not in the advertiser fellating business .  We're in the pond sand filter business .   And the Haitian relief business .   And the funny Pizza shirt business   .   And our biggest business of all is taking care of each other . I love Nerdfighteria because it is a place for people who have felt on the outside looking in to be on the inside of something awesome and important .   And Hank, I've never loved Nerdfighteria more than in the last few days, seeing hundreds of emails coming to Tom and his family wishing them well . Jeff Zucker, Nerdfighteria may be nothing but a YouTube based community, but we are more real than all your reality shows combined .  Correct me if I'm mistaken, but I don't see any cats, and I don't see any skateboards .  Which you might have noticed if you didn't have your head so far up the ass of a gigantic, inflatable beaver . Jeff Zucker, I'll see you when you apply for a job as head of Nerdfighteria programming in five years .  Hank, I'll see you on Wednesday .                 
Boy as views go, that one's not bad .  Good Morning Hank, it's Friday and I'm in Bellingham, Washington at a literature conference .   So Hank, over the weekend there's going to be a Question Tuesday video, not on Tuesday .  Nerdfighters, please be leaving your questions in comments .   But today Hank, I want to ask you a question .    I was walking backwards .   Hank we've been making videos back and forth for more than three years and in all that time we have never once discussed Red Green and I'm starting to wonder whether maybe that's because, you are guilty of a terrible crime .   Now Hank the preface to this story is that when I was a kid, I had a best friend - Nintendo Entertainment System .  Nintendo and I went everywhere together - which is to say that I never left the house .  Hank there was nothing in life that made me happier than when I would press that NES power button and hear those fateful words .   " Blades Of Steel "  .  Still sends a shiver down my spine .   And of course, we also had a dog, a miniature Dachshund named Red Green, who hated me .  By the way Hank, if you are wondering, I'm on my way to a book store to try and secretly sign some of my books .  Now Hank as you probably remember the original Nintendo Entertainment System had a plastic flap which you opened and then removed a game cartridge or put one in .   And sometimes at the end of a long day of playing  " Zelda "  and  " Mario "  and  " Double Dribble "  and  " Blades of Steel " , I would remove that last game cartridge and because I was not as good a friend to Nintendo as Nintendo was to me, I would leave that plastic flap open .   Now Hank, there can be no question that in his life Red Green did many terrible things .  He enjoyed biting children, he would pee on my bedroom carpet whilst staring me in the eyes .   Oh look, I'm a staff pick !    But Hank: in our family, Red Green is most famous for what I discovered one summer morning, when I woke up, dragged myself to the living room and went to go play Nintendo .  You see Hank, Red Green had pooped in my best friend - the Nintendo .  I don't mean he pooped on the Nintendo .  I mean he pooped in the Nintendo .  I had left the plastic flap open over night and when I went to put  " Blades Of Steel "  in the machine, I discovered Red poop .  Well the poop wasn't actually red, it was brown, but it was from Red .   Now Hank the list of suspects for the crime is really limited to our family and Red himself, because it happened overnight and the doors were locked .  Now I know I didn't do it because I loved that Nintendo more than I loved my own .  .  .  I'll just say it .  .  .  brother .  Mom or Dad is certainly a possibility but I think they liked the Nintendo .  It minimized the amount of time I was annoying them .  Plus its just hard to imagine either of our parents picking up dog poop and inserting it into a Nintendo .  Inexplicable gazebo .  So far as I can tell, this leaves two possibilities .  One, you put the poop in the Nintendo or two, in the middle of the night, Red Green awoke in a fit of violent jealousy, backed up to the Nintendo, placing his bum against its opening and proceeded to projectile poop into the Nintendo .  Unfortunately Hank, because I know just how nefarious a dog Red Green was, I cannot discount that possibility .  This means if we were playing clue then I would know the murder weapon and the location - it was Red Green's poop in the Nintendo - but even after all these years, I still do not know the murderer .   Hank, I think enough time has passed for you to answer the question honestly .  Did you put Red Green's poop in the Nintendo or was Red Green some kind of pooping genius ?  Hank, I expect your answer on Monday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Wednesday .  Suddenly and unexpectedly it has become .  .  .  spring, so I thought I'd take you on my favorite walk today while I answer real questions from real nerdfighters .   How do I know if I love him ?  Well for one thing, you don't generally find yourself asking that question .   Who the eff is Hank ?  Hank is a small coral atoll 703 nautical miles south of the equator .  Hank is known as one of the most remote uninhabited islands in the world .   Do you have any beard-growing tips ?  Uhhh .  .  . I mean I guess the main tip would be just try to avoid shaving .  That's really in the end what takes down almost 100% of beards .  Shaving .   Ah, we have arrived, Hank .  Right here, in suburban Indianapolis, nature !   When you coming with a new book ?  My new book, which I co-wrote with my friend David Leviathan, is called Will Grayson, Will Grayson and it comes out in 28 days .   Wait, wh-wait hold on a second !  I have a book coming out in 28 days ?  !  French the llama !   Are you going on tour ?  Yes !  I will be in Indianapolis on March 15th talking about vlogging, and then in April I will be in Chicago, Boulder, Austin, Texas, New York City, Madison, Connecticut, LA and San Francisco .  More info in the doobly-doo !  I pointed in the wrong direction !  Haaaah !   Will you give away some Advance Reading Copies of Will Grayson, Will Grayson to nerdfighters ?  Yeah, that's a great idea .  I have five Advance Readers Copies of Will Grayson, Will Grayson at home .  I will give all of them away to a random commenter here or at the Ning .   How's the diet ?  The diet's still going well, but one thing I wanted to mention, I'm not actually losing weight because people were shaming me .  In fact I think shaming is always inappropriate and it's a particularly bad motivator .  The whole idea of the  " John Green Is Fat "  video was to talk about why it's so enjoyable to have fun at other people's expense, but then it just got muddled and confusing and I'm sorry .  The reason I'm losing weight is because of Henry, like I look at him and I think,  " Well, I guess the only real motivator in this world is love .  "  Well, and also wanting to make your ex-girlfriends regret dumping you .  Yes, true, also that .   If you were in a band, what would you call it ?  I would definitely still call it Mow and the Lawns .  Or the Moby Moby Dick Tones .   Why is a raven like a writing desk ?  Hank, that is a trick and I am not going to fall for it .  Lewis Carroll intended that riddle to have no answer .   But what does a writing desk have in common with a raven ?  Hmm .  Ah !  I got it .  Edgar Allen Poe wrote on both !  Riddle, even when you don't have a solution, I can pwn you !   What part of VidCon are you looking forward to the most ?  I can't pick just one, I'm gonna pick four .  Ze Frank, the ball pit, Charlie McDonnell biting my finger, and the awesome concerts at night .   Are you and Hank trying to get rich from VidCon ?  Yeah .  Hank and I were sitting around one day and we thought to ourselves,  " How could we get rich ?  "  Maybe a YouTube conference .  No, any proceeds from VidCon are gonna go to charity, and one other thing I should tell you, you can get a full refund until June 15th if for some reason you can't go .   And if you don't know what VidCon is, there's a link in the doobly-doo, but I'm not going to humiliate myself by pointing in the wrong direction again .   Will I become incredibly sympathetic to the homosexual agenda after reading Will Grayson, Will Grayson ?  Well, I have to say as a writer I don't really aspire to be in the agenda sympathizing business, I aspire to be in the telling good and true stories business .   Why don't you and Hank do challenges any more ?  I don't know .  Hank, let's do some challenges .  I'll see you on Friday .   See what happened, Hank ?  I was trying to give you a good video outside, but then I cut myself on nature .  Stupid nature .                 
Hey, Henry .  Can you -- can you bite my finger, please ?  Bite my finger .  Henry, we're never gonna go viral unless you bite my finger ! Henry says  " Good morning, Uncle Hank .  It's Monday !  " Henry, you know how I can tell you're an astronaut ?  Like all astronauts, you're wearing SPACE PAJAMAAAAAS ! Henry, like his father, wears pajamas until well into the afternoon .  We both work from home . Henry, why are you so much better lit than I am ?  You're stealing my light .  You seem to have forgotten that this YouTube channel is called  " Vlogbrothers " , not  " vlogadorablebaby .  " Having now spent seven weeks with a newborn, I feel like I'm something of an expert in the field .   And while babies could hardly be more adorable, I can't help but come to the conclusion that babies can be a tiny bit self-centered .    Did you just punch me in the face on purpose ?  It's always,  " Change MY diaper .  Feed ME .  Offer ME comfort .  Give ME a pacifier .  "  What about my pacifier, Hank ?  When will Henry give me a pacifier ?  In fact, Hank, sometimes it doesn't even seem like Henry thinks I'm a person .  It seems like he thinks I'm some kind of robot need-filler .    " I am your robot need-filler .  What are your needs ?  Do you need to be nommed ?  Nom nom nom nom nom nom nom .  "  But anyway, Hank, the weirdest part of the complete inability of infants to apprehend that other people also have needs is that I don't care .  Something weird and base and nurturing happened to me when he was born to cause me to want to, like, change poopy diapers .  By the way, Hank, no matter how efficient a diaper-changer you are, there will always be one nanosecond between the old diaper and the new diaper where the bottom is diaper-less .   And to Henry, that moment is known as poopy time . There's something about being a parent that turns you weirdly insular, so you find yourself really only caring about the needs of your kid, which is why, for instance, I forgot to tell you guys that I had a book coming out in like twenty-five days . Henry says,  " Will Grayson, Will Grayson available for pre-order now, link in the doobly-doo !  "  Thanks, bud .  I appreciate the marketing . Hank, there's this term in the study of religion:  " ultimate concern "  .  Your ultimate concern is the thing or value that you prize above all others .  The one you would die for .  The one you would kill for .  Now, of course, it's pretty easy to go through life without an ultimate concern .  For instance, I don't think Henry has one yet .  You know, because he's still in the business of self-preservation .   But Hank, nerdfighters, that's what I want this week's theme to be .  Do you have an ultimate concern ?  What is it ?  Should you have one ? Right now, my ultimate concern certainly involves making sure that this little guy is happy and healthy and has an opportunity to look at himself in various mirrors .   But I don't know if it should be limited to that .  Should your ultimate concern be limited to your family ?  Should it be about politics, or policy ?  About your community, or your nation, or the human species ?  Should it take into account other species, and if so, should those species be treated as equal to humans ?  Or should self-preservation and our own needs trump everything ?   And when did my husky voice transform into the voice of a pubescent boy ?  Those are my non-rhetorical questions of the week .  I'll see you on Wednesday .    Did you just sigh because you're bored of me video blogging ? Willy says,  " I'm still here !   And I'm cute, too !  " How we gonna kick it, gonna kick it tummy time !  Yes, Hank, Henry's favorite rap songs include  " How We Gonna Kick It, Gonna Kick It Tummy Time, "   " No Sleep Till Burpin', "  and, of course,  " Who's Down with OPP ?  Dad's Down with OPP .  "  You know, other people's poop .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Friday .  I didn't sleep much last night, so if it's okay with you, let's meet on the floor .   Uhh, that's better .  Hank, here I am nestled among author copies of my books in foreign languages .  Like this is Looking For Alaska in Japanese .   Right, so Hank, but anyway this week we've been discussing Ultimate Concerns, and I've been fascinated to read thousands of comments from Nerdfighters talking about what they think their Ultimate Concerns are, whether they think they should have an Ultimate Concern, or whether there should be a single priority that is prioritized above all others .   La Face Cachee de Margo .  I think that means the, ugh the funny face of Margo .  I got a 1 on the French AP exam .   I did think it was interesting that you said that you would fight and die and fight to recreate the Library of Alexandria, which by the way is a great idea, if only we could die or fight to make that happen .  I think your point about the Library of Alexandria though is exactly why it's useful to think about Ultimate Concerns .  It's because it tells you what you value .  You would die to recreate the Library of Alexandria because you value knowledge and information and the availability of information to all .   Here's something that's weird, Hank .  The German covers of my books always have feet on them .  Looking for Alaska, feet !  An Abundance of Katherines, feet !  Margos Spuren, feet !  Girl feet this time, but still feet !   A lot of nerdfighters in comments said that their Ultimate Concern was saving lives, or preserving life, or preserving quality of life in other people .  That sort of a utilitarian world, you and we often hear that the role of people in other people's lives should be to create the greatest good for the greatest number of humans .  Which is a totally legitimate value system, except that none of us actually lives by it .   In Serbian, my name is Dzon Grin .   The thing is, Hank, if you truly feel like your life is no more valuable than the lives of others, there are lots of things that you can sacrifice in order to improve the lives of others .  Here's an example of our kind of universal failure to be truly utilitarian: people traditionally give much more money to fight diseases that their friends and family get, than they'd give to fight diseases that are the biggest public health threats .  Like, for example, because breast cancer is a made of suck disease that attacks one of my very favorite organs of ladies and is also affected several members of my family, I give money to breast cancer research .   And I'm statistically more likely to give money to fight breast cancer than I am to say, fighting cholera, even though cholera is a bigger public health crisis that kills more people younger .   Mmm, hello big eyed Italian girl .  Hank, quoted on the back of the Italian edition of Looking for Alaska is one of the most popular quotes from the novel .   " Immaginare il futuro sa di rimpianto "  I don't speak Italian .   " Imagining the future is a kind of nostalgia "  .   And the great thing about that quote is that I didn't think it up .  It was said to me by Sarah on our first date .  We were sitting across the table from each other at this sandwich shop and she said,  " Imagining the future is a kind of nostalgia " , and I said,  " Haaaaaa !  I must marry you .  "   So I think we all end up privileging those who are close to us over those who aren't, but I think we also end up privileging the threats that are close to us over the threats that aren't .  Which is why, Hank, I'm so impressed by your far-sighted Ultimate Concern .   This is the Mexican edition of Looking for Alaska, and I think it's my favorite one, because it's got this labyrinth in the A and then the inexplicable shoe .  Ooooh, inexplicable shoe .  You're probably a metaphor but I don't understand you .   Hank, there's this great Nigerian writer who once said  " you can make your children safe in the world or you can try to make a world safe for children "  .   And what I've enjoyed so much about this week's conversation between you and me and among all of Nerdfighteria is talking about how we are going to strike that balance between making us feel safe in the world and trying to make a world that's safe for all .  I'll see you on Monday .   Hey Hank, did you know that I can speak Polish ?  Buszujacy .  W .  Zbozu .  21 .  Wieku .  In Polish, Hank, that means this book is better than 21 regular books .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Wednesday .   Great top ten list on Monday, today it's time for my top ten list: Top Ten Animal Power Moves !    .  .  . God I love power moves .   Power move number ten belongs to the Bombardier beetle .  Hank, when the Bombardier beetle is threatened, it turns around and sprays boiling hot acid out of it's butt !   Power move number nine: giraffes .  You know how I love giraffes, Hank .  Giraffes are like the Chuck Norris of the animal kingdom .  When they roundhouse kick you, you forget what time it is .  A giraffe kick has been known to decapitate a lion !   Power move number eight, and one of my personal favorites comes from Cantor's giant softshell turtle .  Now Hank, we know the power move for regular turtles, it's their hard green shells, and we know the power move for red turtles, it's their heat seeking red shells .   But the power move for a softshell turtle is motionlessness .  Yes, Hank, Cantor's softshell turtle covers himself with sand in a riverbank and then sits completely still for 23 1/2 hours a day, moving only when something crosses his path that he can eat .  That actually sounds a lot like my life, only Cantor's softshell turtle gets to live on the beach and I have to live in Indianapolis .   Power move number seven belongs to Trichobatrachus Robustus, which is a frog, and when he's threatened, he breaks a bone in his own foot and then uses the bone fragment from his compound fracture as a claw to stab you !   Power move number six is the cuttlefish .  So Hank, cuttlefish can turn into crazy colors .  They can light up blue and green and orange and yellow, and they'll swim over to some prey, and they'll start lighting up, as if to say  " here's the party !  Check it out !  I'm a disco ball !  Come and party with me !  This is a crazy rave !  OH WAIT !  You just got eaten .  "   Power move number five: baby potato beetles .  Hank, grown up potato beetles have hard shells, which makes it harder for predators to eat them, but baby potato beetles don't .  Fortunately, they have poisonous poop .  It's so rare in life that the word 'fortunately' precedes the words 'they have poisonous poop . ' So what the baby potato beetles do is they poop and then they cover their whole bodies in that poisonous poop to discourage predators .  Power move !   Power move number four: Mabra elephantophila .  Hank, we all know that elephants have awesome power moves like stomping, and painting pictures, but I would argue that the moth Mabra elephantophila has an even better power move, which is feasting on the tears of elephants .  Yes, Hank, there is a moth that gets most of it's sustenance from eating elephant tears, and when the elephants aren't crying enough on their own, the moth will go in and scratch at their eyes to make them cry more .   Power move number three: the Australian funnel-web spider .  Hank, everybody in America is so afraid of Black Widow spiders, but funnel-web spiders in Australia are like for real with their power moves .  For instance, they're very aggressive, and their fangs can shoot through human fingernails .  That's so scary someone had to call me about it .   Power move number two: the duck billed platypus .  Hank, not only are platypi one of the very few mammals that lay eggs, they also have a sixth sense--no joke--called 'electrolocation . ' Platypi can use their fat little bills to sense electromagnetic fields, which means that the moment one of their predators moves a muscle, literally contracts a muscle, the platypi knows which direction that muscle is headed .  It's like a literal superpower only it's contained inside of a glorified beaver .    And Hank, my number one power move in the animal kingdom goes to camponotus saundersi, a carpenter ant .  So Hank, when this ant is in a fight and he notices that he's going to lose, instead of like fighting to the death or whatever, he gets as close to his prey as possible, and then blows himself up .  These ants have these poisonous glands that run the entire length of their body, and when they realize they're about to lose a fight, they contract their abdominal muscles so intensely that they're entire body explodes, sending the poison flying .   Nerdfighters, I can't wait to read your favorite animal power moves in the comments .  It's been fascinating to read about all of the diseases that you have .   Hank, I will see you and your last top ten list on Friday, don't forget to be awesome .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Monday, March 29th 2010 .  It's tax season, which means that I must once again, for the 32nd consecutive year, report to the Internal Revenue Service that I have failed to garner any fishing boat proceeds .  FRENCH THE LLAMA !  Fishing boat proceeds are the unicorns of my tax return !  And, now, Hank, having alienated all our new viewers, I begin the video .  So, Hank, I have a bad habit of Googling myself-- hello, Holden Caulfield hat, how did you get here ? --so the other day I was Googling myself and I discovered something absolutely incre--wait wa-wa-wait, I have something important to discuss which is that in a few days I have a book coming out that I co-wrote with David Levithan and we are going on tour, and some of the events of the tour are ticketed, others are not, to find out if yours is ticketed go to the link in the doobly-doo . Right, Hank, so I discovered something pretty incredible and it wasn't that there is a guy named John Green who is one of the four horsemen of Sasquatchery .  That, I already knew, because one time I wrote an article for the Mental Floss Magazine in which I talked about the fact that Bigfoot is, you know, fictional and I totally got a letter from famous Bigfoot apologist John Green, who said my anti-Bigfoot propaganda was besmirching the good name of John Greens everywhere . Right, so that is not what I discovered, what I discovered is--this is kind of annoying, the tassel .  How did Holden deal with the tassel ? --what I discovered is that a line I wrote years ago in my book An Abundance of Katherines has kind of gone viral on Twitter, it's been tweeted more than ten thousand times .  The line is  " Che senzo ha la vita si amano pro "  -- I don't speak Italian . The line is,  " What is the point of being alive if you don't at least try to do something remarkable ?  "  Which I'll admit I did write in this book, but as anyone who's read it knows, I was kidding .  That's something Colin Singleton, the main character in the book who's kind of a child prodigy, says at the beginning of the book and he must spend the entire book learning it's bull . I don't know how it looks on the screen there on YouTube, but on the viewfinder it looks a liiittle bit like a lady hat .   But I promise, it is not, it is the actual replica, the actual replica, of a hat worn by a fictional character in a novel . Nerdfighters ! Anyway, Hank, this phenomena, it seems to me, is near-universal in the Internet age .  Instead of people being misquoted, they are being miscontextualized .  It's impossible to pull a line or a sentence of even a chapter from a book and understand the meaning of that section .  Because as much as it pains us in the sound-bytey, Twittery world, text means nothing without its context . For instance, Holden Caulfield's red hunting cap doesn't really make any sense until you have the context telling you that it's the same color as his dead brother's hair . Look, she's wearing a hat .  It's not a metaphor, I just thought it was funny . Anyway, Hank, the whole thing made me think about something .  Maybe our favorite quotations say more about us than they say about the stories and people we're quoting . So nerdfighters, what's your favorite quote ?  Leave it down below in comments and then let's think about what that says about us . I mean, how did Holden Caulfield deal with the tassel issue ?  Was that ever covered in the text ? My favorite quote of the moment is from Robert Frost,  " The only way out is through .  "  I don't know what that says about me, but I'm sure you'll tell me in comments and we'll all tell each other about what our quotes say about each other .  Okay, gotta get rid of this tassel, so annoying . Hank, I'll see you on Wednesday . From some angles it's a lady hat, and then from some angles it's like,  " It's-a-me, Mario !  "                 
Good morning, Hank; it's Friday, April 2, four days before the new book I wrote with David Levithan, Will Grayson, Will Grayson, comes out .  Mmm, so shiny .  Obviously, we're hoping that a lot of human beings will enjoy this book, but we also wanted to target the secondary audience of cats .  They like shiny . By the way, there is a link at which you can pre-order Will Grayson, Will Grayson in the dooblydoo .  I spent three years trying to learn the location of the dooblydoo only to have YouTube move it .  .  .  to my pants . The book is about two guys, both of whom are named Will Grayson, who are different people .  .  .  and David writes from the perspective of one Will Grayson and I write from the perspective of the other .   And in the middle of the book, they meet .  .  .  at a porn store, but there's nothing pervy about it .  By the way, this is definitely a book for high school students and up; it's not a book for middle school students or elementary school students or, uh, preschool students .  .  .  or Henry . I wrote the odd-numbered chapters and David wrote the even-numbered chapters .  David and I have been working on this book for more than five years, since before  " Looking for Alaska "  was published .   And so it's crazy, exciting, and nervous-making to have it finally coming out and to see, you know, the beautiful shiny, shiny cover .  And so anyway, Hank, in keeping with tradition, I thought I'd read to you from the beginning of the book .  Story time !   When I was little, my dad used to tell me,  " Will, you can pick your friends, and you can pick your nose, but you can't pick your friend's nose .  "  This seemed like a reasonably astute observation to me when I was eight, but it turns out to be incorrect on a few levels .  To begin with, you cannot possibly pick your friends, or else I never would have ended up with Tiny Cooper . Tiny Cooper is not the world's gayest person, and he is not the world's largest person, but I believe he may be the world's largest person who is really, really gay, and also the world's gayest person who is really, really large .  Tiny has been my best friend since fifth grade .  .  .  .  Andbutso a few weeks after we get back from Christmas break our junior year, I'm sitting in my Assigned Seat in precalc when Tiny waltzes in wearing his jersey tucked into his chinos, even though football season is long over .  Every day, Tiny miraculously manages to wedge himself into the chair-desk beside mine in precalc, and every day, l am amazed that he can do it . So Tiny squeezes into his chair, I am duly amazed and then he tums to me and he whispers really loudly because secretly he wants other people to hear,  " I'm in love .  "  I roll my eyes, because Tiny falls in love every hour on the hour with some poor new boy .  They all look the same: skinny and sweaty and tan, the last an abomination, because all February tans in Chicago are fake, and boys who fake tan - I don't care whether they're gay - are ridiculous .  " You're so cynical, "  Tiny says, waving his hand at me .  " I'm not cynical, Tiny, "  I answer .   " I'm practical .  "  " You're a robot, "  he says .  Tiny thinks that I am incapable of what humans call emotion because I have not cried since my seventh birthday, when I saw the movie  " All Dogs Go to Heaven .  "  I suppose I should have known from the title that it wouldn't end merrily, but in my defense, I'd just turned seven .  Anyway, I haven't cried since then .  I don't really understand the point of crying .  Also, I feel like crying is almost - like, aside from deaths of relatives or whatever - totally avoidable if you follow two very simple rules: 1 .  Don't care too much .  2 .  Shut up .  Everything unfortunate that has ever happened to me has stemmed from failure to follow one of the rules .   So, Hank, that's a little from the beginning of Will Grayson, Will Grayson .  Nerdfighters, I hope you guys like the book; I hope to see a lot of you on tour .  Oh !   And the winners of the Advanced Readers Copies of Will Grayson, Will Grayson, your YouTube usernames are in the dooblydoo .  I hate having to point at my own pants in order to tell people that there is information contained outside the video screen . By the way, Hank, nerdfighters, when was the last time you cried ?  For me, it was not when I was seven, it was when I was, uh .  .  .  yesterday . Hank, congratulations on writing the best song ever about Chatroulette; I will see you on Monday .                 
Good morning Hank it's Wednesday !   And I'm vlogging while biking !  Hank, it's another beautiful day here in Indianapolis .  I'm loafing at my ease, observing some spears of summer grass .  You did totally blow my mind on Monday with that whole  " Size of the Universe "  video thing .   And now I am totally gonna blow YOUR mind by discussing how post-structural literary analysis led to what Michel Foucault famously called  " the insurrection of subjugated knowledge's .  " Okay, I figure Hank probably turned off the video around the  " fu "  in  " Foucault, "  but Hank, if by some miracle you're still watching even after hearing me quote Foucault pluralizing the word  " knowledge "  .  .  . First, I commend you; and second, I order you to stop watching this video immediately .  Seriously .  Katherine, make him stop watching NOW . Hello there, Nerdfighters; for the first time in more than three years, we are free from the tyranny of Hank !  Okay, so listen: in two weeks, it will be May fifth, aka Hank's thirtieth birthday, aka HANKO DE MAYO !  That's right, we are a mere two weeks away from the thirtieth and hopefully best ever Hanko de Mayo, and, we gotta get ready . So recently, during a live show, I was asking Nerdfighters what they thought we should get Hank for his thirtieth birthday, and we were all completely flummoxed because the problem with Hank is that he doesn't really like anything .  .  .  He likes ideas, but it's not like you can get someone the scientific method for their birthday .   But then we realized that Hank DOES like oxygen .  So here's what we're gonna do: We're gonna come together and, as a community, the Nerdfighters are going to plant trees and plants .  For Hank .  Which we will call Hank Trees and Hank Plants, even though they will not be made of Hank . So, if you can, plant a seed or a tree sapling or some plants on Hank's behalf and then photograph or videotape yourself doing that, and then email those photos to me at sparksflyup@gmail . com .   And then all of us will be in a huge Vlogbrothers Hank Tree-planting video .  Your deadline is May third; please include your location, and the number of plants or trees you planted, in your email .  To be clear, I'm not saying that you plant the trees inside your email, I'm saying that you tell me how many trees you planted inside your-- GUHH, GRAMMAR . Oh, and if you wanna upload a video for Hank's birthday on May fifth, let me encourage you to do so, but let me also encourage you to use corn dogs as birthday cakes .   In a related story, mmm-BAM .    That's right, we are making a sequel to the  " Pizza "  shirt: Hank's  " Corn dogs "  shirt .  The Hank shirt will be available for pre-order for one week and one week only, and then it'll ship in like three weeks .  So if you want to get a  " Corn dogs "  shirt, you can order one; there's a secret link in the doobly-doo .  Half my proceeds from the  " Corn dogs "  shirt will go to planting trees where there used to be trees but there aren't trees anymore but there should be trees again ?  and the other half will go to supplemented bank account I have recently set up to allow Nerdfighteria to buy Hank 30 presents for his 30 years .    That's our first present .  Bearing in mind those presents must be--what's a nice word for cheap--inexpensive, please leave your suggestions in comments and I will pick 29 of them .    Sometimes I find myself wanting to do Vlogbrothers voice over, like,  " The old man looks funny when he points at his pants .  " So that's what we're gonna do for the thirtieth Hanko de Mayo; please take pictures and video of yourself planting trees and plants; if you don't have a yard where you can plant such things, you can always plant them in a container garden ? Nerdfighteria, let's give Hank what he wants more than anything: a higher overall oxygenation level of the planet .  I will try to answer any questions you have in the comments; thank you for being awesome, it is a pleasure to spend time with you sans Hank .   To the puppy-sized elephant, my puff is a forest !                 
GOOD MORNING, HANK, IT'S MONDAY !  GOOD MORNING, HANK, IT'S MONDAY !  GOOD MORNING, HANK, IT'S MONDAY !  Good Morning, Hank, it's Monday .  You just got said hello to by hundreds of Nerdfighters .   But, Hank, that was yesterday and today's video isn't about yesterday, it's about today .  So, what happened today ?  I got up, I brushed my teeth, I took a shower, I changed clothes .  I can't show you that, because I worry that the blinding beauty of my naked body my result in Nerdfighters getting retinal damage .   But trust me, it was awesome .  Then I went downstairs and I met up with David .  Say hi, David .  Hi, David !   And then we went to the airport .  At the airport, everybody got in a line to find out if we had metal in our pockets, and I tried to videotape that line of people waiting to find out if they had metal in their pockets, but then the government got mad at me for trying to videotape that, because apparently, it's illegal .  Once I found out that I didn't have any metal in my pockets, I went and got a sandwich, which was not as delicious as its prize indicated it would be .  Then, I had to sit against the grey-speckled wall of the airport in order to plug in my computer, and I tried to go to my quiet place, but then I remembered that I had to tell you something .  Oh, so, hey, my Dutch publisher Lemniscaat- they're going to be re-releasing Looking for Alaska, or as it known in Dutch, Het Grote Misschien .   And they have an awesome idea, which is that they want YOU to design cover ideas for Looking for Alaska .   And then if they like your idea enough, YOU cover could be in The Netherlands .   And now, back to your regularly scheduled voice-over .  So, we got onto the airplane .  I like airplanes, except when they go into the sky, then they scare the crap out of me .  The airplane took us to a different airport, although you couldn't tell it was different from the wall color .  Then we drove into San Francisco, and then, we checked into our hotel .  The angel lady at our hotel, by the way, has hair in exactly the right place .   And then I got into my hotel room and took out my phone and looked at pictures of Henry, because he is a cute little bugger and I miss him like crazy cakes .   And then it was now .  It's actually still now .  It never stops being now .  I miss Sarah and Henry and I'm tired and I miss having time to write .   But, in a couple of hours I get to meet hundreds of people who've read the book that David and I wrote together and that makes me feel like the luckiest guy in the world .  So, Hank, I just want to say thanks to the Nerdfighters for making my day possible, for making this tour such a blast- oh, and Hank !  You may remember that the Nerdfighters with the HP Alliance raised so much money to Help Haiti Heal that we filled four planes with medicine and water that's desperately needed .  Well, Hank, the fourth and final plane leaves for Haiti on Thursday .   And you know what Partners in Health is calling it ?  The SS DFTBA .  How awesome is that ?  Hank, I'll see you on Wednesday .  I'm trying to figure out if there is in fact a tune to Summer of Gang   .  I kind of would love to actually sing one of these songs, or be able to, but I just don't know that I have the Tiny Cooper in me .  Oh, you have the Tiny Cooper in you .  Oh, well .  I mean, yeah, but you know .  I like that I rhymed vagina with finer .                 
GOOD MORNING HANK, IT'S FRIDAY ! Good morning Hank, it's Friday . You know who's in my hug bucket ?  Greece .  Every time I see Greece I just wanna give em a big ol' hug .  I don't, however, want to give them 150 billion euro, and therein lies the problem . Okay, so Hank I wanna talk about sovereign debt today, but just to establish at the outset that this is not a particularly political problem, here is a chart of the gross federal debt by president as a percentage of GDP .  As you will notice the fluctuations have nothing to do with whether the president is blue or red .  The same is true in other developed countries as well . Okay, so Hank to begin, let me tell you one of the great rules of economics: If you are rich, you have to be an idiot not to stay rich, and if you are poor, you have to be really smart to get rich . This is true for individuals, but it's also true for countries .  Fancypants countries with fancypants currencies have all kinds of advantages over developing counties including that we are able to borrow money cheaply .  In fact, because fancypants countries can borrow money so cheaply, it actually often makes sense to run a deficit .   And the reason for this is that in the long term, our economy can grow faster than the cheap, cheap debt we're acquiring to pay for our economy to grow . So that is not inherently bad for nations .  The famous example for this is that in 1945 the United States had a debt that was more than 100% of its GDP, and our deficit was more than 20% of our GDP, and that level of debt immediately preceded the largest expansion of our economy in history .  Also the largest expansion of our waistlines in history .  Yes, that's funny, we did get fat . So debt is not bad, but debt that you can't repay is very bad .  The trick of fancypants countries being able to borrow money cheaply has always been that the market assumes that fancypants countries are basically guaranteed to pay you back .   And when I say that the market assumes, I mean the market assumed until two months ago when it realized that Greece, a fancypants country with a fancypants currency, maybe can't pay back its debts . What's interesting is that Greece is probably technically in a better economic position than America was back in 1945 .   But for a variety of reasons, some of them very legitimate, the market has decided that Greece won't be able to pay back its debt, which in turn has led to new debt being much more expensive, which has in turn made it completely impossible for Greece to ever pay its debt . You see Hank, it's a circle, and it's vicious, That's where they got the term . This raises the possibility that fancypants countries with fancypants currencies might not pay back the money we loan them which will probably raise interest rates for a lot of fancypants countries, which could lead via the vicious circle to more defaults, higher interest rates, more defaults, higher interest rates, I could go on like this forever which would be very bad, like we would yearn for the days of 10% unemployment . All of which is complicated by the fact that we're coming out of a worldwide recession, and the total economic output of the world is smaller, so there is less money coming in in taxes, but governments still need to spend approximately the same amount of money, and for everybody who says that the problem is wasteful government spending, we aren't even close to a balanced budget .  I mean, the United states would have to eliminate both of its two biggest expenses, social security and defense in order to even come close to balancing the budget .  The only other way to shrink the deficit would to be to raise taxes, which is not generally seen as a good idea during a recession . So the problem of sovereign debt may be not being as cheap as it once was isn't the fault of any one political ideology, it's kind of everybody's fault . So basically Hank, I don't want to alarm you, but I do think we should all buy unicorn pinatas and hide our valuables in them .  Actually Hank, the unicorn strategy won't work because we have to keep loaning each other money, and we have to figure out a way to loan confidently, like we did back in 1945 .  That's why the EU and the IMF are working so hard to try to mail down a bailout pan for Greece .   And if fancypants countries can't continue to convince us that our money is as safe with them as it is inside of a unicorn pinata, they will lose the cheap money privilege they have enjoyed for centuries, and history tells us that once a stupid rich man gets poor, he doesn't usually get rich again unless he is Donald Trump . Hank, I'll see ya on Monday Hank, I told you I'd see you on Monday, that's your signal to stop watching, but nerdfighters, there is still time to participate in our secret project .  Click here for more info !  Here, I made it a heart for you .  Click .                 
" Look !  A worm !  "  " Yeah, they happen to be in the earth .  "  " Hold on, do it with your hands .  "  " Gentle !  "  " Okay, I'm sor- "  " Happy birthday, Hank !  "  " Happy birthday Hank !  "  crowd " Happy birthday, Hank !  "  " Happy birthday, Hank !  "  " Happy birthday, Hank !  "  " Happy Hanko de Mayo !  "  " Happy Hanko de Mayo !  " Good morning Hank, it's the most wonderful day of the year !  It's Hanko do Mayo !  Happy thirtieth birthday ! Hank, you're a tough guy to shop for, and Nerdfighteria spent the longest time thinking about what we should get you .  We did get you this corn dogs shirt, hope you like that .  But that didn't seem like it was enough, so for the longest time we were tortured .  What will we do for Hank on hie thirtieth birthday ?  !  But the we realized you like oxygen .   And so to increase the overall oxygenation level of the world Nerdfighteria planted more than ten thousand plants and trees for you on six continents ! Even Henry got in on the act, he planted these Indiana native wildflowers for ya .  And now Hank, enjoy meeting some of the thousands of Hank trees and Hank plants that your awesome has inspired us to bring into the world .  Happy birthday ! The years are going by so fast it really is bewilderin' And we'll be so-called  " grown ups "  and have mortgages and children I hope we all gain worldliness, and wisdom, and maturity But I hope most of all that MySpace falls into obscurity I hope our profiles all go dead, entombed in distant servers A monument to our youth, although lacking its observers Your page will be an empty shell, when no one is behind it I hope your MySpace stays forever - and I hope that your kids find it How I hope that you forget about your MySpace I hope it slips completely from your mind And I hope it stays up long enough for the next generation to find And I hope that it embarrasses your children Hope their bratty friends all forward it around And I hope that you forget your password So you cannot take it down If your kids think you're vaguely square, it will be so much clearer When they laugh at the pictures you took in your bathroom mirror They will not know your favorite band, or any of the others " Who is this Soulja Boy you reference, who's the Jonas Brothers ?  " They'll marvel at how old you are, they'll  " ROFL "  at your outfits Your style may pass as  " vintage "  in the future, though I doubt it How I hope that you forget about your MySpace I hope it slips completely from your mind And I hope it stays up long enough for the next generation to find And I hope that it embarrasses your children Hope their bratty friends all forward it around And I hope that you forget your password So you cannot take it down I hope your cynical kids say,  " Holy crap, this is greatthese comments date all the way back to 2008 .  " I hope they dig through your pictures, and find some we might call compromising I hope that seeing young Mom in a swimsuit or smoking a hookah isn't too traumatizing But it will be past their comprehension They'll ask  " Did Grandpa not give you enough attention ?  " Denananananananana nanananananana nanananananananananannanana nanananananana And who the hell is Tom ?  That guy knows everyone ! How I hope that you forget about your MySpace I hope it slips completely from your mind And I hope it stays up long enough for the next generation to find And I hope that it will humble you forever And I hope your kids won't let you live it down And I hope that you forget your password So you cannot take it down They might go through your top 8 friends, read your comments at the most I only wish that they could see the inane bulletins you post "  " Happy birthday, Hank !  "  " I'm going to take these shoes and plant them, and then hopefully I'll get shoe trees !  God, I hope they're dot martens !  "  " Happy birthday, Hank !  "  " Hank tree !  "  " Hank, happy thirtieth birthday, and this is my version of the topsy-turvey tomato plant .  "  " Happy Hanko de Mayo !  "  " I went out and bought these really pretty purple flowers that are in a hanging basket .  "  " Hank plant !  Huzzah !  "  " Happy birthday, Hank !  "  " We tried to get as nerdy flowers as possible .  "  " Happy birthday, Hank !  "  " I wake up in my racecar bed,Tame the puff that's on my head,My feet are cold as they hit the floor,I don't think I'm home anymore . John shouts,  " Hank, I don't mean to scare ya, But I think that we woke up in Nerdfighteria . Settle down, clear the area,Then look out the window .  " Cause I don't know what it is that I can see . This place is like the internet, but it's all in 3D . There's no place I'd rather be Than living here with my nerdy friends Making videos happily On Nerdfighteria Island . Dressing up like I did in high school,Taking sexy photographs,Talking of women who like men And giraffes who like giraffes . Let's go down to Nerdfighteria City,Where the roads are paved with Peeps, And everyone is so witty, And there are no perverted creeps . Cause I don't know what it is that I can see . This place is like the internet, but it's all in 3D . There is nothing that I'd rather eat,Than foods that perfectly blend,God, I love smoothies made of meat On Nerdfighteria Island . There's certain rules you should obey,Like don't ever FTBA, And now I come to think of it,Let's take the world-suck down a bit . We don't care one iota,About Winner, South Dakota,Now we've got our awesome island,With awesome seas and awesome awesome .  But I don't know what it is that I can see . This place is like the internet, but it's all in 3D . There's no place that I'd rather be Than living here with my nerdy friends Making videos happily On Nerdfighteria Island . On Nerdfighteria Island .  "  " Hi Hank, I know you like useful plants and stuff on your head, so I planted some parsley ad put it on my head .  Happy Birthday !  "  " Hey Hank, happy birthday !  I planted you some of these plants, which will be named The Hank Plants .  "  " Happy birthday, Hank !  "  " Happy birthday, Hank !  "  " Happy birthday, Hank !  "  " Happy birthday, Hank !  "  " DFTBA !  "  " Breathe the oxygen .  Hank is now watered .  Happy birthday, Hank !  "  " Happy birthday, Hank !  "  " Happy birthday, Hank !  "  " Happy birthday, Hank !  "  " We're jugglers/sword swallowers for VidCon .  We planted three tomato plants because we wanted to raise the oxygen levels, and because my wife likes tomatoes .  "  " Happy thirtieth birthday, Hank !  This is the tree that I planted for you .  "  " Happy birthday, Hank !  I planted marigolds for you .  "  " This is begonia Hank .  "  " There are times when the paper starts off empty cause there's so much we don't know how to say But if we think about itit will all come outif we remember it was waiting for today These are things we want you to know You should know the world is getting smaller You should know how much these people care and I know it seems like it's a lot to be but we just thought that you should be aware And you should know that this is just beginning You should we're in it for the fight If we find someday, it's done and packed away Then it's because it all turned out alright These are things we want you to know I was taught that we're all getting older But I've learned and I know that it's not true Just take all these days and let them melt awaybecause we've spent them here with you You should know the things we have accomplished and you should see the fondness we all share And if you run aground then just turn around and we'll all be standing there These are things we want you to know There are times when you hear a thousand voices and it spins, and nothing feels the same But when they've moved on when they've hushed and gone you remember that we all know your name These are things we want you to know "  " Happy birthday, Hank !  "  " Happy birthday, Hank !  "  " Happy birthday, Hank !  "  " Happy birthday !  "  " Happy Hanko de Mayo !  This is my plant; his name is Hank .  "  " Happy birthday !  "  " Happy Hanko de Mayo !  "  " Happy birthday, Hank !  "  " Happy birthday !  "  " Happy Hanko de Mayo !  "  " I'm gonna go plant some peas .  "  " This is for your hug bucket !  "  " Happy Hanko de Mayo, everybody !  "  " Happy Hanko de Mayo !  "  " Happy thirtieth birthday, Hank !    These are nerdfighter sign helpers because I can't do the sign .  "  " Hank is my hero !  "                 
Good morning Hank, it's Wednesday ! So Sarah and I know the tunes to a lot of lullabies, but we don't know the words to any of those lullabies, which has necessitated us coming up with our own lyrics .  Nowhere is this phenomenon weirder than in the list of things that Daddy is going to buy Henry in the event that the mockingbird doesn't sing .  Hush little baby, don't say a word,Daddy's gonna buy you a mocking bird If that mocking bird don't sing,Daddy's gonna buy you a diamond ring If that diamond ring don't shine Well, daddy's gonna buy you a case of wine And if because you're an infant and not allowed to drink that wine should go sour Daddy's gonna buy you a superpower And if that superpower proves corrupt,Daddy's gonna buy a volcano erupt-ing And if that eruption produces too much ash,Daddy's gonna buy you a diaper rash, And if that diaper rash actually isn't desirable, and besides that can't be bought,Daddy's gonna buy you some polka dots Hmmm .  .  .  polka dots !  And if those polka dots aren't your style Daddy's gonna buy a Pacific isle And if that Pacific isle is in fact way too expensive for Daddy to purchase, and he defaults on his loan and gets foreclosed upon,Daddy's gonna buy you the sultanate of Oman And if given that Daddy could not afford a tiny island, his promise to buy you a sovereign nation is plainly silly,Daddy's gonna buy you some water lilies And if those water lilies ever should wilt,Daddy's gonna buy you a hand-knit quilt, And if after all that you still weep,Daddy's gonna have to grapple with the fact that while buying goods and services may benefit the economy, it's not necessarily the best way to get babies to sleep .  Nom nom nom nom nom nom nom nom nom .  .  . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                   
Good morning, Hank .  It's Monday of How-to Week and today I am going to fulfill the most common request we received and tell YOU how to make a baby .    Okay, so some people will tell you that making a baby is a one-step process, particularly if you're a dude, but those people are wrong .  In fact, it is a seven-step process .  Step one: Before you make a baby of your own, you're gonna wanna check out a baby that someone else has made .  From this experience you will likely learn that 1) babies are cute and 2) babies are monsters of narcissism who believe that there has never been another human being in the history of the world and who also believe deep down in their tiny little baby souls that you exist solely for the purpose of attending to their needs .  In fact, I would argue that whether you find babies cute is not necessarily relevant to whether you'll enjoy HAVING a baby .  Step two: Okay, say you go to bed at 11 PM, set your alarm for midnight,  wake up, and listen to this for twenty minutes .  Then set your alarm for 2 AM, wake up, listen to this for twenty minutes, and so on every two hours, twenty-four hours a day for two weeks - No breaks !    Okay, so having done that, you're now ready for step three .  There are several ways to take step three from test tubes to turkey basters but by far the most common is to have sex .  Alright, that was fun .  Step four: If you're a woman, it's time to give up sushi and caffeine and alcohol and go-carts and most of the other things that make life worth living .   But the good news is that now you get to vomit all the time .  Or if you're a dude, you get to stand outside the bathroom door, listening to vomit and thinking to yourself very quietly, because you know from experience that the person you love the most in the world can sometimes hear your thoughts,  " That person I love most in the world sure was less cranky when she used to drink coffee and not vomit so much .  "  Step five: If you are the person giving birth, it is time to do the hardest core thing you will ever do in your entire life .  If you are not the person giving birth, this would be a great time to say,  " You're doing awesome !  "  and then faint .  Step six: The baby cries .  Step seven: You cry .  Which begins a dramatic increase in the total number of minutes people are crying inside of your house .   And THAT in seven easy steps, Hank, is how you make a baby at which point it becomes socially inappropriate for you to wear your Zombie-Unicorn hat, even though you are still young at heart .  Nerdfighters, we're doing more how-to videos this week, so leave your suggestions for what you'd like us to teach you how to do in the comments .  Hank, I gotta go upstairs and do daddy stuff but I will see you on Wednesday .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Friday of How-To Week .  I've gotta go to Chicago today but on my way I'm going to answer the top 10 search queries on Google beginning with the words  " how to "  .  Okay, first  " how to tie a tie .  "   But before we talk about how to tie a tie  , we gotta talk about which tie you're gonna tie .  In order to do that, Hank, you have to ask yourself a question,  " Is it Christmas ?  "  If so, you're gonna wanna go with your Christmas tie .   And if not, you're still gonna want to go with your Christmas tie because we don't actually know when Jesus was born .    Okay, Hank, so once you've chosen a suitably understated dress shirt for your tie .  Make sure the little guy is shorter than the big guy, but the big guy over the little guy, but the big guy under the little guy, pull the big guy around--keep the fingers right here please-- and then up   and under .   And then right now, this is where, this is where the magic happens, Hank .  You've gotta find a way to put the big guy right there, in the hole--I know, that's what she said--then you pull down, shape it, shape it with the fingers, tug .   And .  Now I am ready   to learn how to kiss .    You wanna know how to kiss ?  Alright, first thing you need to do is get a hair cut because you're not Tony Danza   and this isn't  " Who's the Boss ?  "  .    So, Hank, broadly speaking there are 3 approaches to kissing .  There's the fish   .  There's the slightly stupid person   .   And then there's the snake that dislocates its jaw and eats its prey whole   .  Mm .  I fogged up the camera with my joke .  Here's how to kiss .  Don't be the snake .  Hank, that would argue that ideally you wanna be situated somewhere between the fish and the stupid person .  Alright, what's next ?   " how to lose weight fast .  "  Well, I've found it's helpful when someone puts   your face on this T-shirt .  Hank, in the last year I've lost 30 pounds on a very simple color-coded diet .    I eat less brown stuff and more green stuff .  Next,  " how to get pregnant .  "  Ya kno- I don't know .  For something that fourteen-year-olds do all the time, it sure is hard for a lot of people .   But remember that 90% of couples conceive within their first year of trying .  So just keep bangin' away at it .  Wait, that pronoun has an ambiguous antecedent .  What do I need to keep banging away at ?  The problem of the being difficult to co-- NEXT TOPIC !   " how to solve a Rubik's cube .  "    Fine, but before we solve a Rubik's cube, we need to learn how to spell  " Rubik's cube .  "  It's not R-U-B-I-X .  It's R-U-B-I-K-'-S .  It is the cube belonging to Rubik .  Specifically Erno Rubik, the Hungarian architecture professor who invented Rubik's cube .  Fortunately this topic has been covered on YouTube .    Click on the cube an it'll take you to a video explaining in great detail how to solve a RubiK'S cube .  Onward .   " how to get a girl to like you .  "  I have two recommendations for how to get girls to like you .  Number 1: you can turn into a sneezy panda .  Or Number 2: you can click on my face   right now to be taken to a video where I talk about that very topic .  Okay, what's next .   " how to make it in America "  is a show on HBO .   " how to train your dragon .  "  What you gotta realize is that the way you imagine your enemy is often the way your enemy imagines you .  Also, they like fish .  Just FYI .   " how to make a website .  "  Hank, you already did that .  That's what led to How-To Week .    Click on my face to be taken to Hank's video about how to make a website .     And lastly,  " how to write a resume .  "  Hank, I haven't done that in many years but I have two tips .  One: keep it to a page .   And two: don't lie .    So that's how to do the top 10 things that people wanna know how to do on Google .  Hank, I'll see you on Monday .                 
Good morning, Hank; it's Monday .  So this is Jonathan Coulton .  He's a singer, songwriter, family man, all-around nice guy -- he bought me a beer once -- but for our purposes today, he is a small media company .   And this is Viacom, also a media company, somewhat larger .  Okay, and now this is a snippet from a Jonathan Coulton video called  " Flickr .  "     .  .  .  A tiny baby smiles and waves  " Hello .  "  In the cold, grey light of dawn, an eagle flies .   And the men are happy, wearing matching ties .  A pair of poodles; broken finger will not bend .  Soup with noodles; female Klingon's drunk boyfriend .  Sexy lady; this party's better than it seems .  Warren Beatty; to sleeping giant panda: pleasant dreams .      Right, so basically Jonathan Coulton found a bunch of images on Flickr that had a Creative Commons license, and then he turned them into a nonsense, crazy, funny song, which he then released under a Creative Commons license saying,  " You can share this, you can remix it; all you have to do is attribute it to me and not make money off of it, "  which is why you don't see an ad next to my head today, Hank .   But more on that in a second .  So, Hank, as you explained in your excellent video on Friday, Viacom is suing YouTube for a billion dollars, because One: Viacom believes that YouTube only became popular by using pirated content and that, therefore, Viacom is owed a portion of YouTube's, like, overall value .  By which measure, YouTube does owe Viacom some money, but not nearly as much money as it owes LonelyGirl15 and that  " Evolution of a Dance "  guy .  Also, Two: YouTube made advertising money off content owned by Viacom .  Now Hank, everybody agrees that YouTube ought to pay Viacom that ad money, but the amount is in dispute .  YouTube thinks that it should have to pay what online video advertising is worth, whereas Viacom thinks that YouTube should pay what online video advertising would be worth if we lived in a land of money trees and candy fountains .  Right, so, but anyway, Hank, in your video on Friday, you mentioned that Viacom owns its own video-sharing website, spike . com .  That led me to do some digging .  Hank, you can probably see where this is going .  When you go to Viacom's website, spike . com, and you search for Jonathan Coulton, you can watch Jonathan Coulton's  " Flickr "  video, only before you watch it, you have to watch an advertisement for a cell phone .   And then while you're watching it, you get to look at advertisements for Mountain Dew and American Express and Guitar Hero .  In short, Viacom is doing to Jonathan Coulton in 2010 what YouTube was doing to Viacom in 2006 .  Now, Hank, when this is pointed out to Viacom, they may take down the video, but you can't un-make money you already made .  That video has been viewed more than 18,000 times on spike . com .  Now, if we use the same insane mathematical formula that Viacom used to calculate how much YouTube should owe them, Viacom owes Jonathan Coulton $13,823 .   But, it may be that, in this particular instance, Viacom doesn't wanna use crazy math, they wanna use real math, in which case, they owe Jonathan Coulton $37 .  So, Hank, here's my question for Viacom:  " Where is Jonathan Coulton's $37 ?  "  Hank, I sent an email to Viacom asking that very question; if you or any nerdfighters want to do the same, there's a link in my pants .  Ah, Hank, we all know Viacom hates piracy, so I'm sure they'll pay Jonathan Coulton his $37, unless, of course, they think video views are really worth what they say they think they're worth, in which case, I'm sure they'll pay him his $13,823 .  I mean, the only other possibility would be that Viacom thinks the definition of piracy is stealing from someone who has a lawyer .  .  .  and that doesn't seem like the Viacom I know and love, Hank .  Hank, I'll see you on Wednesday .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Friday .  I'm in a hotel in Milwaukee because the Yeti's cousin is becoming a Catholic priest and I am here to witness it .  Today's video comes to you in 12 parts .  That's right, Hank,12 parts .  I think that might be a parts record .  Hold on a second .  Sorry, Hank, the uh 2010 FIFA world cup has just begun and I am .  .  .  An interesting fact about me, Hank is that I have watched at least part of every world cup game since 1994 .  Part 1 .  Getitgetitgetitgetit .  Ohhhh oh .  Hank, South Africa just hit the post in the 89th minute .  Part 2 .  As far as Viacom stealing my video goes, I still want my money .  As far as I can tell, what Viacom did to me and what they've done to hundreds of others is the exact same as what they're suing YouTube for purportedly doing to them .  Hank, we've talked to some lawyers who think that Viacom probably made whereabouts of two dollars for stealing my video .  If Viacom is so opposed to piracy, I assume they'll be sending me my two dollars soon .  Part 3 .  Part 4 .  So Hank, Vidcon is less then a month away and a related story, haaaaaa is the sound that my anxiety makes .  There's no more rooms at the hotel available, but we got a group rate at a different hotel .  The prices are about to go up for Vidcon for the last time .  Plus, it's almost sold out so nerdfighters if you wanna go you should probably register now .  It's gonna be fun .  In addition to all the YouTubers, lots of people from YouTube are gonna be there who are gonna give like keynotes about the inner-workings of YouTube, which will be fascinating to me .  Is there anything else I was supposed to say ?  Ohh if you're under 18 you will need someone in your party over 18 in order to check into the hotel .  Sorry .  Ohh and Natalie Tran can;t come, Community Channel .  She's so great, but she can;t come all the way from Australia .  We're bummed out about it, but we totally understand .  Part 5 .  What I love about soccer is that it rewards the perfect balance between creativity and discipline, in which sense it is exactly like writing books .  Only it's so much more beautiful then writing books, which is why I am not working today .  Part 6 .  I'm so good at counting .  Ohh if only it weren't for Thierry Henry's hands .  Part 7 .  I get so nervous I have to watch it on mute .  Part 8 .  Ningmaster Tom .  I keep forgetting to say this, Hank, because last time Ningmaster Tom appeared in a video he was comatose, but Ningmaster Tom is fine .  He's got some problems with his left eye, but he is doing much better .  He is very grateful to all the nerdfighters for all your support .  Thank you guys for being so awesome and for helping him in his recovery .  Part 9 .  I don't even care about this game, why am I so excited ?  Part 10 .  Ohhhhh, great save .  Part .  .  .  I don't have enough fingers .  Ohhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh .   And lastly, Part 12 .  I have a new website, johngreenbooks . com at which you can find out about forthcoming nerdfighter gatherings and other events in like Washington D .  C .  and Munich, Germany and Edinburgh, Scotland and London, England .  Incidentally, Paper Towns just published in the United Kingdom .  Please buy it otherwise they will never publish another one of my books there .  Alright, Hank, I have to go watch France play Uruguay, but I'll see you on Monday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Monday, and uh .  .  . you're gonna die .  You're gonna die and I'm gonna die and everyone we've ever loved is gonna die and then one day there will be no one left to remember that anyone ever did anything !   And because there will be no one left to remember the books we wrote or the World Cups we won or the mathematical proofs we proved or the in-your-pants jokes we made, someday, it will be as if those things never happened .  Hank, I remember one time when I was at the planetarium at the Orlando Science Center when we were kids and they explained that in about six billion years or whatever the earth is gonna fall into the sun, or some--I don't remember, I'm not good at science .   But anyways, it was the first time I ever had to grapple with the fact that the habitability of the universe itself is temporary .   And I asked a question about it and my teacher was like,  " Aw, but it's a long way away, "  and I thought, well, it seems like a long way away to you, teacher, because you're old !  I'm eight !  It's very plausible that with advances in medical science I could live for six billion years !  Now, Hank, some people seem to think that talking about death or endings or the inevitable temporariness of the entire human experiment is somehow pessimistic or nihilistic .   But, Hank, I thought your video on Friday which so brilliantly explored games and losing and non-attachment was actually quite optimistic .  What you pointed out in your video is that while we don't get to choose whether we're going to lose the games we play, we do get to choose which games those are .  We don't get to choose whether to care, but we do get to choose what to care about .   And when I find myself caring about a game I like to be challenged to think about whether that game helps the people who are here with me now, whether it honors those who came before me, and whether it paves the way for those who come after me .  Because all this is temporary, but we have a say in how temporary it is .  By the way, somebody gave me an anglerfish .  It's cute, right ?  I choose nerdfighting and I choose books and yes, even though it's silly, I choose the World Cup .  Because it transcends geography and ethnicity and wealth and politics and puts the world where we belong--playing on the same grass with the same ball .  Actually, dumbass, it takes more than one ball to play a World Cup soccer match .  Yeah, I realize that, but if I had said  " playing with the same balls, "  you would have been like,  " heheheheheheh he said 'playing with balls . ' "  That's right, I would've .  By the way, who's the lucky guy who gets to have the pair of balls that the whole world plays with ?  Shut up, Mister Filthypants, I'm trying to make a point here .  So, Hank, your brilliant video on Friday did not make me change my mind about whether to watch the World Cup .   But it did force me to think about why I care about soccer and it also reminded me that caring is a choice .   And I'm grateful to you for that .  So grateful, in fact, that you have inspired me to make a World Cup episode of Truth or Fail in the hopes that by sharing in the hope that by sharing my World Cup knowledge with you, I might turn you into a football fan .  So, Hank, don't forget to be awesome, I will see you on Wednesday, and here's Truth or Fail !  Hi, there, you're watching the World Cup Edition of Truth or Fail, YouTube's only game show .   And I am watching Spain play Switzerland .  Sorry, but I've watched every single World Cup match since 1994, and I am not going to let this edition of Truth or Fail break my streak .  Here's how the game works: I'm gonna tell you two purported facts and you're either gonna click on the true one, or you're gonna click on the wrong one and fail worse than England at a World Cup penalty shootout .  Here's your first set of facts .  Fact One: The goal the United States scored against England in the so-called  " Miracle on Grass "  1950 World Cup was in fact not scored by an American but by a Haitian .  Or, Fact Two: The term  " soccer "  is derived from the fact that early football players often played not in cleats, but in their socks .                 
-1, 2, 3: -Good morning, Hank, it's Friday !   And I am in Washington D .  C .  to attend the American Library Association's annual conference .  Hank, this conference is kind of the highlight of the young adult literature social calendar .  You get to hang out with like 30,000 librarians, which is awesome, because librarians are the secret superheroes of America .  Plus I get to meet all these authors I like, like Nina LaCour, and the ladies behind Beautiful Creatures, and Lauren Oliver, and Maryrose Wood, and noted unicorn apologist Diana Peterfreund .  So here's what I did today: First I went to a panel I wasn't on, then I went to a panel I was on with David Levithan, and I was all like,  " How do we use the internet to lure readers ?  That sounds like the beginning of an episode of To Catch A Predator, you know ?  "  Then I talked to my editor Julie Strauss Gabel about my new book .  -Do you like it ?  -Love it .  -Have you finished it ?  -No .  -Why haven't you finished it ?  -I don't love it that much .  -Do you think it's gonna be my next book for sure ?  -Yes .  -Tell the Nerdfighters what's it about .  -Desert island .   And a vvvvveeeerrrrry dangerously attractive boy who's up to no good .  'S that fair ?  -I think he's up to a lot of good !  -He thinks he's up to a lot of good .  Like men often do .   And a girl !  A girl narrator, we like the girl narrator .   And then we went to the actual conference where there are just so many books !  All over this conference there are advance reader's copies of hundreds of books and you can .  .  . just .  .  . take them .  New Cassandra Clare ?  Want .  Have .  -All right so John, here we are .  Nobody's around .  Scholastic booth, so--shhh .  All right .  Either I can give you an early copy of Mockingjay, or I can give you Natalie Standiford's awesome Confessions of the Sullivan Sisters .  -Standiford !  -Okay, okay, good choice .  Hank, lest I be murdered by marauding fangirls, I am excited for the new Natalie Standiford book, but Mockingjay wasn't really there .  Also, if you don't like books, they got other shwag, like this gavel that is also a pen .  Which is good, because then you can be like:  " I hereby declare it time to write !  "  All right, Hank, I'm gonna go hang out with some librarians, but I'll see you on Monday .                 
Willy, look at the camera .  Be a star, Willy .   Good morning, Hank, it's Wednesday, and Willy and I are outside because, you know, it's beautiful .   So Hank, your video about Phineas Gage on Monday made me think about the human brain--God I love brains !  I'm like a zombie in two respects, Hank .  One: I love brains .  Two: on some fundamental level, I pretty much just walk around doing whatever I need to do in order to keep walking around .   Right, but anyway I love brains .  I love all the crazy wonderful things that human brains can do, and today I wanna use my knowledge of brains to definitively solve the mystery of the poopy Nintendo .   Right, so Hank I'm sure you're familiar with Neisser and Harsch's work in the late 1980s on flashbulb memories .   But Hank, just for those people who aren't specialists in the fields of memory science, let me tell you about the famous classic 1989 Challenger Flashbulb Memory Study .   Okay, Hank, so in 1986, this is very sad, there was a space shuttle called the Challenger, and as it was going up into space, it blew up and everyone inside of it died, including a teacher named Christa McAuliffe, and there were millions of schoolchildren all around America watching this space shuttle launch because there was a teacher inside, and then we were all, you know, horrified .   The Challenger explosion is one of those moments where everyone know what they were doing and who they were with when they heard the news .   And here are two such stories .   Story one:  " When I first heard about the explosion, I was sitting in my freshman dorm with my roommate, and we were watching TV .  It came on a newsflash and we were really shocked and I got really upset and then I went upstairs to talk to a friend of mine and then I called my parents .  "   Story two:  " I was in my religion class, and people walked in and started talking about it .  I didn't know any of the details, except that it had exploded and all the teacher's students had been watching on TV .  "   So, Hank, we have two very different stories, one in which a person found out about the Challenger explosion while in Religion class, and one in which the person found out watching TV .   And that's perfectly plausible, there's no problem with that, right ?  Bu-bu-bu-bu-bu-bu-bu-BUT BUT same person .   Those two stories were recorded by the same person in this famous study by Neisser and Harsch .  She wrote the Religion class memory the day after the Challenger explosion, and the TV memory three and a half years later expressing total confidence in her recollection .   In fact, almost everyone who participated in this study remembered three years later who they were with, what they were doing, and how they found out about the tragedy, and yet, the vast majority of them were wrong .   There is, in fact, very little correlation between how well you remember something and whether that something happened .  The brain is not good at storing accurate memories, it's good at destroying narrative memories .  I wrote a book about this .    .   Here is what I am saying Hank .  .  . I have a flashbulb memory, extremely vivid, of discovering Red Green's poop in the Nintendo .  I believe that memory to be accurate, but after extensive research, it would appear that the only person who physically saw Red Green's poop in the Nintendo was me .   Hank, before I move forward with this discussion, I should acknowledge that I was an inveterate liar .  As opposed to now, when I am a novelist .  It is possible that I created the fiction of Red Green's poop in the Nintendo and found that fiction so credible and compelling that I myself came to believe it true .  It's possible that I have blamed a deceased miniature dachshund  .  .  . and my be-liked brother .  .  . for putting poop in a Nintendo that never had poop in it .   So Hank, I want to apologize to you .  I believe that my broken brain might've created an incorrect flashbulb memory .  I also want to apologize to Red Green, whose bad name I unfairly besmirched .   But I can't apologize to him, Hank, because he's dead .   But, I can ask Willy's forgiveness on behalf of all canine-kind .   Willy !  Would you like to come over here and perhaps .  .  . have all of your dreams come true ?  Oh you would !   I'm sorry, Willy .  I'm sorry about my incorrect flashbulb memory .  Do you forgive me ?  Can you ever forgive me ?   Hank, I feel the tongue of forgiveness on my cheek .  I will see you on Friday .                 
GOOD MORNING HANK, IT'S MONDAY !  Actually, it's Wednesday, but I did get 1400 people to say 'hello' to you at VidCon, which isn't nothing .  So Hank, we're just back from VidCon, and for your edification I have compiled my top ten VidCon moments .  Number ten: Dancing to the All Caps song,  " Don't Unplug me "  .  Now Hank, as you know, I can't dance, but I am very passionate about it .  Same way I felt about French kissing in high school .   " Don't unplug me, or-or-or just shut me down !  Please, just love me with-with your steel heart !  "  Number nine: meekakitty's Velociraptor .   " Rrrawrrr, rrrrwaarrr !  "  Eugh !  Scary, but also alluring .  Eight: Dan Brown's announcement of Dan 3 . 0 .   " For one year, I am very literally putting complete control of my life in your hands .  "  Hank, I think Dan 3 . 0 will be a fascinating social experiment, although I fear that if we did it, people would just make us put unicorns on our head all the time .  Number seven: hiimrawn asked me to dress up as a turkey for his big musical production, and I was puling on the turkey costume, and I was like,  " Ron, that's fine, I'm happy to do it, but I don't know, am I supposed to dance ?  Am I supposed to get on stage ?  When do I-- "  Whereupon he turned to a guy dressed as Batman, pointed at him, and said,  " Batman, I'm going to need you to be a leader in the situation .  "  Number six: Hank, singing on stage with you for the first and last time in my life .   "  .  .  Put stuff on your head, "   " Put stuff on your head .  Oh, it could be blue, or it could be red .  The color doesn't matter if it's on your head !  "  Number five: Mass hug at the nerdfighter gathering involving hundreds of nerdfighters .  Four: I suppose at this point I should be used to it, but Ze Frank gave the most astonishingly brilliant keynote address I think I have ever heard, reminding us that we don't make or watch videos for money or subscribers or views, but because we wanna feel what it's like to be other people, and let others feel what it's like to be us .  Number three: Just how nice everyone was .  I mean, given the fact that Youtubers are mostly introverted nerdy people who like to spend their free time with editing software, everyone was incredibly nice !  Everyone hung out, famous people didn't act like they were famous, and the whole vibe of the event was so wonderfully supportive and collaborative .  Number two: Two words: Double rainbow .  The Gregory Brothers have auto-tuned the news, singing a song they had written mere hours before .   " This is a song that goes out to all the rainbows .  Also the ladies, but mostly the rainbows .  "   " --double rainbow all the way across the sky !  yeah, yeaahhh !  So intense .  Double rainbow all the way across the sky !  Wow, wow, ohhh my God, look at that rainboww !  "   And Number one: Seeing my little brother sing about particle physics in front of a thousand people who loved every second of it .   " A quark is a fundamental constituent of matter observed in 1968 through deep electric scatter .  We found that protons are more complex than we thought, we thought they were solid particles, but they are not .  "  Nerdfighters !  Hank, thank you for all the thousands of hours you spent making VidCon as awesome as it was, it felt like my favorite parts of the internet existed in real life for three whole days .  Nerdfighters, if you were at VidCon, whether in real life or on Livestream, please let us know what your favorite parts of the conference were, and let us know, if Hank is crazy enough to do this whole thing again, who and what you would like to see at VidCon 2011 .  So Hank, thanks again, and I will see--Hey listen, I'm happy for you, and I'mma let you finish, but the Vlogbrothers have one of the most subscribed Youtube channels of all time !  That's right, the Vlogbrothers just broke into the top 100 most subscribed .  Thank you all for subscribing, particularly thanks to RayWilliamJohnson, charlieissocoollike, and meekakitty, but thanks to everybody, you're so awesome !  Hank, I'll see ya on Friday !                 
Good morning, Hank, its Monday .  I'm in an airport !  Fancy that .  I like balls .  I'm on my way to Munich, and I've been thinking about an opportunity you missed, presumably intentionally, in your--I'm trying to record a video !  Hank, hold on for a sec, I have to go to Munich .   And here I am !  Took me longer than it took you .  I know what you're wondering, Hank .  John, did you sleep on the plane ?  I did not, so here it is, one day later but zero hours sleep .  .  . fortunately, my hotel has welcome body and hair shampoo !  I washed my body and my hair with the same product .  Welcome .  Also, Nerdfighters, do you live in Munich ?  Come see me later this week .   And, if you live in London or Edinburgh, next month .  More info in the uh .  .  .  I'm tired .  I assume that 'Einfahrt' means bad .  Right .  So what was I talking about ?  Balls .  Right .  Balls .  So, Hank, in your video on Friday you revealed that you have two fun balls from the Vidcon ball pit signed by Shane Dawson .  Which, as you pointed out in the video means that technically Shane Dawson has signed your balls .  Now Hank, I realize that I'm stating the obvious here, but if you title that video 'Shane Dawson signed my balls' then you put up a high contrast thumbnail of Shane Dawson's face, that video is more or less guaranteed to get ten million balls .   .  .  .  Views .  I meant views .  Sorry, I'm very tired .  Walk with me .  So anyway, your decision not to call that video 'Shane Dawson signed my balls' seemed to me almost heroic .  Well, I don't want to blow it out of proportion the day after Nelson Mandella's 92nd birthday .  Maybe heroic isn't quite the right word .   But the fact is that the prevailing belief on the internet, and in television, and in movies is that all views are good views .  Now Hank, we don't exactly have the moral high ground on this subject given that our three viewed videos are, in order, giraffe sex, giraffe sex and .  .  . giraffe sex .   But your bold choice not to call your Friday video 'My balls got signed by Shane Dawson' reminded me that while I like balls, we are not in the balls business .  We are in the Nerdfighting business .  That's why I make videos, and why I write books, and why I'm in Munich, because I like doing awesome stuff with awesome people .   And that's why my proudest day as a Nerdfighter came last week not when the Vlogbrothers hit 300,000 subscribers, but when the Nerdfighters came together with Esther and helped the Harry Potter Alliance win $250,000 .  That's what our community does, and while there is a place in this world for liking balls and giraffe sex, that's our real work, Hank .  Thanks for reminding me of that and Nerdfighters, thanks again for voting with Esther to win the Harry Potter Alliance $250,000 .  DAAAAH !  FRENCH THE LLAMA !  Hank, I'm sure you'll let me know what my punishment is on Wednesday .  --after fade to black-- Well that's certainly the hairiest Jesus I've ever seen .  .  .                 
So as I've been walking around Munich, I keep seeing people with surfboards, and I'm like, listen, I'm not a geographer, but, where's the ocean ? *cuts to a guy surfing on some kind of river*There's the ocean . I'm coming to you today in a field of sunflowers because, well, because I can .  Let's walk .  So Hank, in your video on Wednesday, you discussed an encounter with Snooki, a reality television show star .  I sort of knew who Snooki was, but I wasn't totally confident, so after I watched your video, I went to check her out on Twitter . Hank, what I discovered troubled me .  It's raining, let's go inside . Now Hank, a lot of people say grammar and spelling aren't that important, and certainly their importance can be exaggerated, but the reason grammar and spelling exists is to make communicative experiences as clear and transparent as possible .  So today, Hank, we're going to look at some recent Snooki tweets to see how poor grammar and spelling can lead to confusion .  .  . and threesomes . Snooki tweets:  " Everyone please stop having heart attacks when i miss an apostrophe or coma or period .  Don't wanna pop a blood vessel in your eyeballs .  :) " Okay, first off, Snooki, I'm not the one that should be concerned when you miss a period .  Secondly, I'm certainly sympathetic to the occasional apostrophe mistake, but I am deeply concerned when anyone missed a coma .  I mean, Snooki, I realize that you are not a trained medical professional, but still, comas should be relatively easy to spot .  The only excuse for missing a coma is being in a coma . Another example .  Snooki tweets:  " I wish I didn't freeze up when I saw Marc Wahlberg at the MTV Movie Awards because he is SO banging .  fml .  Marc, come back !  Lol !  !  " Let me submit that Mark Wahlberg might be somewhat more inclined to believe that you are a big fan if you knew that he spelled his name with a  " k .  "   And now, Hank, let's move on to the equally troubling problem of poor grammar . Now Hank, I'm going to look past the small stuff, like the fact that Snooki repeatedly refers to groups of men as  " packs of gorillas, "  even though we all know that a group of gorillas is called a  " troupe .  "  I'm not even going to get into the strange and fascinatingly racist habit of calling her followers  " Tweetos .  "   But Hank, check this out:Snooki tweets:  " I like pink roses and long walks on the beach holding your hand with margaritas in the other this time of year .  " Huh ?  Hank, this is a very difficult sentence to parse, but so far as I can tell, there are three possibilities .  First possibility: Snooki has freakishly large hands that allow her to hold her boyfriend's hand with one hand and plural margaritas with the other hand .  Possibility number two: Snooki has more than two hands, at least three, possibly many more, so that she has one hand with which to hold her boyfriend's hand, and then two or more hands with which to hold margaritas .   And lastly and most disturbingly, possibility number three: given Snooki's hatred of apostrophes and capitalizations, it is possible that Snooki is imagining some kind of menage a trois with her boyfriend and a woman named Margarita .  As in,  " This time of year, I like pink roses, long walks on the beach, and holding your hand - with Margarita's in the other .  " Hank, this is why grammar is important, because without it we can't tell if Snooki is poly-amorously inclined or has a secret third hand !  Now Hank, I want to emphasize that Snooki is not stupid .  We all make spelling mistakes .  I mean, you misspelled Snooki's name in your Wednesday video .   And although it's my job not to, I make grammatical mistakes all the time .  But Snooki doesn't value language, and she doesn't care about the quality of discourse in our society .   And I worry when we celebrate those people, instead of people who use language precisely and thoughtfully, that we end up with really crappy discourse, whether it's on the Jersey Shore or in Congress . Hank, Munich is lovely .  My punishment sounds .  .  . horrible, so thanks for that .  Nerdfighters, please keep suggesting punishments for Hank in comments, I read them all .  Hank, you'll find out your punishment on Wednesday, but I'll see you first on Monday .  Best wishes !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Wednesday - office reorganization project .  I thought I would take your lead and show you my Saturday, the day that youtube asked all of us to share our life in a day .  I got off around 9, it was raining in Munich and I didn't have any readings or school visits scheduled that day so I got on the train .  Train's here .   And I went into the city center because there was this watch I wanted to get for Sarah and also because I wanted to get Henry a present .  I got off the train in Marienplatz and looked around for the store that supposedly sold the watch I wanted but I didn't know where the place was .  I don't know where the place is .  Then I found it .  They were having a sale that apparently involved price reductions of undefined percentages .  I got the watch, I hope she likes it .  She liked it .  So then I walked around looking for a toy store for Henry .  I loved Munich and I love being in cities with lots of other people because I'm reminded that there are billions of people like me, and we're each stuck inside of our minds, feverishly trying to crawl out to make connections with other people .  Also I really like umbrellas, it's like  " I have a roof, I carry it with me !  "  .  Umbrellas always amuse me .  Then I came across a bookstore and I decided to go in .  They were having the same vague sale as the other place .  Not only did they have my books, but while I was in the store I ran into an actual reader of my books who was there to pick and English copy of Paper Towns !  I couldn't believe it, I was so excited I had to take video of us together .  I've never walked into a bookstore, even in America, and had someone recognize me when I was looking for my own books .  I'm a little bit embarrassed but mostly delighted .  Right now I'm looking at a taxi cab that almost hit and killed me but swerved at the last second thereby saving my life, none of which I caught on video .  So I kept looking for a toy store, which I didn't find, but I did run into this women's soccer game in downtown Munich .  This guy was watching them play .  I still can't tell if his facial expression is heroic or pervy .  This sign reminds us that people with legs of different lengths should stick together .  Then I started to vlog about something but these church bells started up .  I kept waiting for them to go away but they wouldn't .  They were so loud that I couldn't even tell where were they coming from, the bells just seemed to be .  .  .  omnipresent, which on retrospect I guess is probably the point .  Anyway, eventually I figured out that the bells were coming from this church, I went inside and lit up a candle for a friend of mine who's sick but I didn't film that because it felt private .   And then finally I found a toy store and I bought Henry a little wooden train .  Then I got back on the real train and went to my hotel to change shirts because I had to do this tv interview, and then I walked over to White Ravens book festival which was why I was in Munich in the first place .  So this whole children literature festival is at this outrageously nice castle first built in the 15th century, which is now the largest international children's literature library in the world .  That night there was this hilarious reading from this book by a guy named Michael Gerard Bauer about a kid called Ishmael .  First, Michael read scenes of the book in English .   And then a German actor read in German .  Okay so in this very funny book, Michael wrote some song lyrics and then in the end of the night this miraculous thing happened, a German band, made up mostly of doctors, got together and made the songs from Michael's book real .   And then Michael got to sing along which was, of course, amazing because the secret dream of every novelist is to be a rock star .  So the English lyrics of this Australian book come to life inside of a 15th century castle in Munich, and on this day, Hank, that's what I loved .  I loved our hyper-connectedness and our ease of movement; that words written in Australia can become songs in Germany; that the little stories I write in my basement can bring me to a place like Munich, that trains and planes and Skype make us also close to each other .   And my fear ?  I just hope that 500 years from now the castles that we have made for ourselves will still be there and that there will still be people and music and stories to populate them .  Hank, I gotta catalog these books .  I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good Morning Hank it's Monday August 2nd   Willy I'm trying to film a vlog .  Good morning Hank, it's Monday August 2nd 2010 unless you live in Australia, in which case it is Tuesday August 3rd 2010 .  Which means that at least in Australia it is Nerdfighter Esther's 16th birthday today AKA Esther day .  So Hank when I met Esther in Boston I promised her that on her birthday in perpetuity we would make videos about whatever she wanted us to make videos about and yesterday she got back to me with what she wants Esther Day to be all about .   And she said she wants it to be about family and love *arghrunhandsthroughpuff* Isn't it enough to just show you that I love you without having to talk about it ?  I'm a boy, i don't like to talk about it .   But it's Esther Day so we're gonna talk about family and love .  Okay Hank so there's this restaurant near my house called Hotcakes Emporium Pancake House Restaurant   .  Right so on the menu at HEPHR they have a side dish called Freedom Fries, which look and taste like French Fries but they're not French Fries because they're Freedom Fries .  Now Hank you may remember that in 2003 some members of the US congress got mad at France because France did not believe there was a link between Iraq and Al-Quaeda .  They got so mad at France that in the congressional cafeteria they renamed French Fries, Freedom Fries and French Toast, Freedom Toast .  I'm not entirely sure why France would even want to be associated with French Fries, which first of all are not French they're Belgian and second of all they're very bad for you .  It's like if there was an independent nation called a Heroin and we got mad at it and we're like 'we're renaming Heroin Freedom', the nation of Heroin would probably be like 'thank you' .   But anyway Hank, apparently HEPHR is still mad at France so they still call French Fries Freedom Fries .  Which leads me to an interesting question: Is a Freedom Fry a French Fry ?  Hank, there's a famous moment in the play Romeo and Juliet where Juliet says 'That which we call a rose, by any other name, would smell as sweet' .  Juliet's saying that what we call something doesn't matter, the only thing that matters is the thing itself as it really is .   But, spoiler alert, it's worth noting that that world view does not actually spell success for Romeo and Juliet .  I would argue Hank that there's ample evidence that the words we use to describe the things we feel matter .  That in fact French Fries and Freedom Fries are not the same thing .  A French Fry is a delicious albeit carcinogenic food and a Freedom Fry is a really stupid political statement, made more stupid by the fact that all American political parties now acknowledge that we were wrong and the French were right so maybe we should just quietly go back to calling them French Fries .  Let me give you another hypothetical example Hank, say you love your brother .  but you don't actually want to say you love him because there's just a lot of emotion and stuff built up over the last 30 years .  So hypothetically maybe you just say you like him and then just try to show him you love him .  You know, by like having thousands of people plant tens of thousands of trees for his birthday, or something, I don't know what the thing is .  That is not actually the same thing as telling your brother you love him .  Which i think is what Esther wants me do and maybe what Esther wants all of us to do .  So maybe Esther Day is the day where we think 'who do i love who i have trouble saying I love you to' .  Not some romantic interest, that's just using Esther Day as an excuse to tell someone you love them, that you already want to tell them .  .  .  no .  I mean family, or platonic friends, which for me is even harder than family .  Hank, *blowingraspberrynoises*, I love you .   And your punishment is that you have to do a makeup tutorial, you know, in the style of youtube make up tutorials .  Deadline September 1st .  So Nerdfighters join with Esther and me and tell someone you love that you love them today .   And if you're feeling exhibitionistic, let us know who it's hard to say I love you to in comments .  Happy Birthday Esther .  Hank i'll see you on Wednesday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Wednesday   and my day went like this:  I got up at 5:30 A . M .  because, apparently, babies don't know about time zones and Birmingham is one hour behind Indianapolis, even though longitudinally, they are basically indistinguishable from one another, which is the kind of thing that really annoys me at 5:30 in the morning .  Stupid time zones .   Then I made some coffee and felt better .   And then since I was up, I figured I might as well drive down to my high school alma mater Indian Springs School .  So, my first novel, Looking for Alaska, is about a guy from Florida who was obsessed with the dying words of famous people and then leaves home to go to a boarding school in Alabama .   And I myself was once a guy from Florida who was obsessed with the dying words of famous people and then left home to go to a boarding school in Alabama .  Aaah, traffic jam !  It took me like half an hour to get through this but you're going to get through it instantaneously .  Anyway, Looking for Alaska IS fictional, but the setting really isn't .  The school in the book is called Culver Creek but it's almost inch for inch the same place that Indian Springs School was in 1995 .   So, it's always a little weird to go back because there's the interstate exit and there's Sunny convenience kiosk and there's Coosa Liquors where they cater to your spiritual needs and here's the swan and the octagonal cafeteria and the beautiful view from the classroom windows and here is the swing where Alaska and Miles have their first conversation, where Alaska tells Miles the last words of Simon Bolivar .   " Dammit !  How will I ever get out of this labyrinth ?  "  .   So, it's still summer, which means no students, and also that it is HOT like a hundred three degrees, but just as they say, it isn't the heat so much as it's the humidity .  Actually, it's also the heat .   So, the school was quiet in a way that it never got during the school year and for a minute I felt like I was walking through a ghost town but then I realized that I was the ghost .  There are only two places I really needed to see, so I walked past the fancy new dorms and past the student-run vegetable garden and then down to the first place .   This bridge over Bishop's Creek .  In both Looking for Alaska and real life the concrete outcropping beneath this bridge was known as the Smoking Hole .  I could tell that it'd been a while since anyone has been here because the briers has grown into a tangle over the path .   I haven't been down here in fifteen years but it looks the exact same as my memory except with no cigarette butts .  Maybe, I thought at first, people just don't smoke anymore, which would be awesome, but then I started to worry that this slab of rock had simply been forgotten, that there'd been a break in the secret line of communication that handed down the Smoking Hole from one generation to the next .   And that made me feel old, like I was in love with a place that had been forgotten and I was feeling pretty sorry for my old ass self when I happened to look up and see an Emily Dickinson quote graffitied on the wall apparently in 2008 .   Well, you can imagine the nostalgia, Hank, down there where I have loved and lost, staring down at this creek that ran through my adolescence, feeling comforted by the knowledge that our legacy was well-maintained by the students of today with their Dickinsonian graffiti and I'm walking back up at the very pinnacle of this fit of sentimentality and then bam !  stung by a bee .  AHHH !  !  !  BEE STING !  !  BEE STING !  !  !  BEE STING !  !  AHHH !  AHH !  !  Oooh that hurts !  Oh daddy !  That's always how it goes, Hank, you just try to romanticize your freaking past for one second and then a freaking bee comes along and stings you on the very top of your left butt cheek, ruining everything .  Of course then I had to call Sarah and complain, because it is a medically proven fact that the only thing that lessens the pain of a bee sting is whining to your wife .   These trampolines are just close enough together to invite poor decisions and just far enough apart to punish those poor decisions .   Eventually, I found myself in the second place .  There used to be a barn in this field, a barn where I first told a girl I loved her, and where I spent my first all-nighter studying world history by flashlight will drinking astonishingly bad wine .  Emily Dickinson wrote that success is counted sweetest by those who ne'er succeed .   And so too, youth is counted sweetest by those who are no longer young .   Nostalgia is inevitably a yearning for a past that never existed and when I'm writing, there are no bees to sting me out of my sentimentality .  For me at least, fiction is the only way I can even begin to twist my lying memories into something true .   Hank, I'll see you on Friday   .                 
Good morning Hank, it's question Tuesday  , the day that I answer real questions from real nerdfighters .  Hank, yesterday I sent out a tweet asking nerdfighters if they had any questions and they answered en masse,  " Do you have any advice for nerdfighters starting their first year in college ?  "   " I need advice about college !  "   " Any advice for kids starting college ?  "   " What's the best way to get brain matter off my bludgeoning stick without leaving any DNA behind ?  "  Right, so most of them were about college .  Having both attended college and watched the movie  " Animal House, "  I feel like college is one of my fields of expertise .   And so far as I can tell there are five facets of the collegiate experience: academics, interpersonal relationships, binge drinking, road trips, and living on your own .  Alright, so let's take these in order .  Number one, academics .  I am going to tell you a secret .  Every year, many, many stupid people graduate from college .   And if they can do it, so can you .  In fact I would argue that it is not that difficult to skate by at most colleges .  That said, it turns out to be a huge mistake to ignore the academic facets of college .  Partly because the point of life is to be able to engage as deeply as possible with the miracle of human consciousness and partly because there will come a day when you are thirty-five years old and you are writing a check every single month to pay off your student loans and it will be very helpful to you if you feel like that money bought something .  Because my friends I am here to tell you that you do not have to be a college student to play beer pong .  So, study .   And the only other piece of academic advice I'd give is to study broadly .  I think it's really valuable to take classes in lots of different departments because you will be surprised how the classes you don't think you're interested in end up shaping your life .  For example, although I'm not a sciencey person, I took several biology classes in college, including one called AIDS, Ebola, and Emerging Viruses, and it is as a direct result of that class that today I am a hypochondriac .  Number two, interpersonal relationships .  So most people, when they start college, they're pretty worried about making friends .  So here's some advice: first, be nice to everyone, uh, also, just be calm .  Like I don't know if this is true for anyone else but when I get into social situations where I feel uncomfortable I can be a little bit like  "   Hello hello I'm John Green   I wanna be friends I wanna be friends I wanna be friends I can't hide it I can't hide it oh my God I wanna be friends with you so bad .  "   And, uh, that's scary for people .  Uh, a couple other things: never refer to kissing as  " scoring, "  never refer to the ladies as  " the ladies, "  and, uh, try not to pee or throw up on anyone else or their belongings .  I realize that's pretty base-level advice for those of us who are potty trained but you would be astonished how many people have difficulty following that advice during college .  Which brings me to binge drinking .  Sometimes it seems like there's only two kinds of college students these days, those who binge drink with alarming frequency and those who define themselves primarily in opposition to that binge drinking .  I would submit that neither of these worldviews is particularly attractive .  I mean no one likes holier-than-thou judgmentalists but on the other hand no one likes to be vomited upon .    .  Well it should be .   But let me encourage all college students to embrace identities that don't involve alcohol .  Like, just join some clubs or something, there's so many clubs in college .  That's something else I would say .  Join clubs !   But not just one club .  People who belong to just one club are super annoying .  Because they'll never shut up about their one club, like it's the only club that matters, like the only place that needs to be free is Tibet .  I love you Tibet, it's nothing personal, I just also love Burma .  Fourth: road trips .  Take them .   And lastly, living on your own, except not really because you don't have to clean the toilets .  I'm not gonna tell you that life in college is easy or give you any of the lies about how it'll be the best years of your life which it won't unless you have a terrible terrible life .   But the great thing about college is that it creates this weird in-between space where you're no longer a child but you also don't have to do a lot of the annoying things about being an adult, like cleaning your own toilets .  Well, you do if you don't have a dorm room .  Sorry for people who don't have dorm rooms, because now I'm just taunting you .   But this in-between space gives you, for the first time in your life, time, to pick what you wanna do .  So you can read Foucault and talk about Foucault with some of the smartest people you'll ever meet .   And you can also skip a biology test to drive to the Grand Canyon with a girl you met the day before   .  Don't let the freedom of that moment get by you .  So that's my--oh, and one other thing .  Don't get too excited about  " The Fountainhead .  "  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good Morning Hank, it's Friday .  I am wearing a fox hat, which is funny, if you've read Looking For Alaska .  I put something in a book and then someone made it real .  My whole life is like a complicated Paper Towns cartographic metaphor is a sentence that has never been spoken before in human history .  Today's video comes to you in five parts .  Part One: Are zombies people too ?  So Hank, the other day I was at Charlieissocoollike's house, not bragging, just stating a fact, and I saw on his famous wall of stuff the sign  " Zombies Are People Too .  "  So Hank, one time many years ago when I still lived in New York, I was hanging out with my friends Cassandra Clare and Holly Black and they got into a knock down drag out fight on the topic of whether trolls are people .   And ever since seeing that sign on Charlie's wall I've been thinking, are zombies people ?  Now Hank, you're welcome to disagree with me, but it seems to me that the central definition of zombieness is not slow shuffling movements or even reanimation or cannibalism .  It seems to me that the central difference between zombies and the rest of us is that zombies just walk around doing whatever they have to do to continue walking around .  What I'm suggesting is the terrifying thought is that zombies may be people and in out weaker moments, we may in fact be zombies .   But I don't know, Nerdfighters: Are zombies people ?  Let us continue the conversation in the comments .  Part Two: The Guide to Nerdfighting .  So Hank, there are a bunch of made of awesome Nerdfighters who are trying to put together a book that will be a guide to Nerdfighting, with definitions of Nerdfighter language and stories from Nerdfighteria and artwork and all kinds of stuff .  I think it's a really cool idea to try to crowdsource a book, Nerdfighters, if you are interested in helping, guidetonerdfighting . com link in the doobly-doo .  Part Three: Hank, as you may have noticed, my library has been re-cataloged .  Ugh, call me a nerd, but I love a cataloged library .  By the way, my favorite recent moment in Vlogbrother comment time, someone commented,  " That guy looks like a nerd .  "   And then a Nerdfighter responded,  " He doesn't just look like a nerd .  "  To the library !  Woah, woah, woah, woah .  Okay .  That would have been a stupid way to die .  Upstairs is pretty much the same .  My foreign editions, first editions of fiction, literary biography, southern studies, art books, some miniature chairs in case we ever have miniature guests, more art books and then history .  Then we have fiction written by dead people, travel, kid's books, fiction by living people, young adult, mystery novels, memoir, literary criticism, and of course our old friend black Santa .   But the downstairs, Hank, is brand new .  Author copies of Paper Towns, boxing, author copies of Looking for Alaska, desert island books, Will Grayson, Will Grayson, works of lexicography, books about child prodigies, Mark Twain, An Abundance of Katherines, more Mark Twain, and also books about death .  More young adult fiction, portrayals of puppy sized elephants and the dread pirate Wilson Roberts, poetry, and Everything You Need to Know About The Goth Scene In Your Pants, religion, and books about conjoined twins .  So, there it is Hank, my re-cataloged home library .  I have to thank the Yeti because she did almost all of this, knowing as she did, that all I wanted for my birthday was a re-cataloged home library .  Part Four: That thing that we've been doing is actually thing .  So Hank, a lot of Nerdfighters have noticed in that the last few weeks we have been making these voice over videos where we go to a place, whether it's a bison range, or Munich .   And Hank, unlike Wheezy Waiter, who cowardly refuses to acknowledge that explosion Wednesday is a thing, these videos that we have been doing are a thing .  They're the beginning of a series of visual essays we're calling  " Thoughts from Places .  "  You can find out a little bit more about Thoughts from Places on my website; link in the doobly-doo .  I love to point at my pants, Hank .   And speaking of pants, Part Five: important developments in the field of your pants .  Hank, it is with considerable excitement that today I announce that a Nerdfighter in the United Kingdom has uncovered a children's book called  " The Sweaty Yeti "  in your pants .    .  .  .  The Sweaty Yeti, oh my goodness,ohhh I love my life, I love Nerdfighteria .  Hank, Best Wishes .  I'll see you on Monday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Sunday .   Bonus video .  So, an opinion poll last week found that more than 20% of Americans believe that the President of the United States, Barack Obama, is a Muslim .   Now, Obama has repeatedly said that he is a Christian .   But he also repeatedly said he'd allow us to import prescription drugs from Canada, and that hasn't happened .  So, instead of taking Obama's word that he is not a Muslim, I thought today we could do an analysis of what we know about Barack Obama, and what we know about Islam and come to our own conclusions .   So the five most central facets of Islamic belief and practice are known as the Five Pillars of Islam .  The first is the shahadah, the recitation and the belief in the statement that there is no deity other than God and that Muhammad is God's prophet .  You're not a Muslim until you say and believe the shahadah .  Now, we can't prove that President Obama has never said the shahadah but we also can't prove that he hasn't said it, so let's move on .   The second pillar is prayer .  Now, as many of us know, observant Muslims pray at least five times a day: dawn, noon, mid-afternoon, sunset and nighttime .   And it just so happens that we know a lot about Barack Obama's daily schedule because he's the President .  So, for instance we know that on April 8th 2010, during evening prayers, Obama was having dinner with Dmitry Medvedev   We also know that on April 5th 2010, during noon prayers, Barack Obama was hosting the White House Easter Egg hunt .  Nobody at that event notice Barack Obama, prostrate on the ground, praying in Arabic .   The third pillar of Islam is zakat .  Zakat is almsgiving: Muslims are required to give 2 . 5% of their wealth every year to the poor .  The public has access to a lot of Obama's tax returns and, between 2000 and 2005, he and Michelle gave an average of less than 1% of their income to charity .  Meaning, that in addition to being a bit of a tight-wad, Barack Obama was not performing zakat .   The fourth pillar is Sawm, or fasting .  During the holy month of Ramadan, Muslims do not eat or drink between dawn and dusk .  Ramadan began this year on August 11th .  On August 17th, a photographer snapped this picture of Barack Obama ordering lunch .  Which he proceeded to eat in front of hundreds of people .  In fact, the President has been seen eating and drinking during the day pretty much every single day of Ramadan .   The fifth pillar is hajj, or pilgrimage .  Muslims who can afford to do so and are able-bodied are obligated to make the pilgrimage to Mecca at least once in their lives .  Obama has not yet made this trip, although there is still time, but it's unlikely he ever will, for this reason: the Saudi government will not let you into Mecca if you are not a Muslim .   And Barack Obama is not a Muslim .   So, while it's possible that Barack Obama has said shahadah at some private moment that we don't know about, he completely and spectacularly fails to follow and of the other pillars of Islam .  So, we don't even have to get into the fact that he drinks beer and eats pork hot dogs humorously .  This leaves one of two possibilities, Hank: either President Obama is not a Muslim or he is a really bad Muslim .  Of course, there's nothing wrong with being a Muslim; President Obama just isn't one .  He's also not Jewish, not a baby and not the starting left-fielder for the New York Yankees .   So, Drudge Report, Huffington Post, CNN, Fox News: maybe we can find something else to talk about ! Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .   Oh, and P . S .  this suit ?  It isn't all business .                 
Good Morning, Hank, and welcome to Fitness for Nerds !  I am your host and nerd, John Green .  By the way, you should be doing this .  This is your first stretch .  This is not a game of Simon Says - you just do it .  You don't have to wait for me to give you some secret code .  Feel the burn right there .  Hold it !  Alright !  Our second stretch .  .  . is the  " Teacher !  Please call on me !  It's me !  I know the answer !  I do !  Ah !  Call on me, teacher !  "  You feel it right in there .  You feel that ?  I know I look good .  I know .  So do you .   And the other side !   " Why don't you call on me ?  It goes so much faster if you just call on the smart kids !  You only call on the dumb kids !  It takes forever to learn anything !  Please call on me !  "  Alright !  Good stretch !  Alright, Hank, our final stretch is my middle school move .  When I was in middle school, I wasn't content just to say  " hello !  "  - I had to have a move that involved saying hello, and the move was this .  *slaps leg and points*  " Hello !  "  It did not turn out to be a great social strategy, but it is an excellent stretch !  So, let's pull it up right there, and over, *points* Hello !  Again !  Over, *points* Hello !  I'm gonna fall .  Okay !  That's part of Fitness for Nerds .  Other side !  Pull it up, feel that stretch .  Feel that stretch .   And over, *points "  Hello !  Over, strong point !  Hello !  Over, hold it this time .  .  . till you fall .  .  . and, we're done with our stretching .  Okay, now we're ready for some real fitness !  We're gonna start with English class !  I need you to get big books !  I have, from one hand,  " Infinite Jest "  and a biography of Mark Twain, and for my other hand, the Norton Shakespeare .  You get the books down at the sides, and up, yes !  You are Bruce Wayne, except you are Batman because your cape is out !  This is the posture for the cape .   And you hold it, and you hold it .  .  . do you feel your strength ?  Do you feel your strength, nerds ?  I know I feel it !  Hold it !  Books are beautiful for reading, and their also beautiful for holding !  Hold it !   And down .  Okay .  Alright, and up again !  You are Bruce Wayne !  Yes .  You are a billionaire, you are super-strong, and you are going to bring vigilante justice to your entire city .  Hold it !  Hold it !  I know it hurts a little bit .  Hold it !  If it doesn't hurt, your books aren't big enough .  Hold it !   And down .  Alright !  Make sure the books, you got a nice, tight grip on the books .   And up !  You're a pillar of strength .  Hold it !  Hold it !  Keep dancing, friends .  Keep dancing .  I'm gonna want you to do a lunge .   And down !  Ahhhh .   And up !  I know it hurts .   And down .  One more !  Up !  Other leg .   And down .   And up !   And back .   And down .  Alright .  Now we're gonna go to math class .  I'll meet you on the floor .  Hands crossed, above your head, and 3 .  Point 1 .  4 .  1 .  5 .  9 .  Keep it going !  2 .  6 .  5 .  3 .  I know, Willy, I'm exercising .  5 .  8 .  Stay with me !  9 .  7 .  Now we're gonna switch !  We're gonna cross right here .  It's gonna be a little bit - awww !  Thank you for the licks !  Excuse me, I'm trying to get fit !  - and 9 .  3 .  2 .  3 .  8 .  4 .  6 .  2 .  6 .  Stay strong !  4 .   And back !  3 .  3 .  8 .  3 .  You can do it !  2 .  7 .  9 .  5 .   And 0 !  Ah !  You know you have had a lot of sit-ups when you get to the zero, the first zero, in the calculation of pi .  Now, if you want a great workout, go to the second zero .  Now, let's move on .  Now, you're through school, you're on your way home .  .  . it's time to run from the bully !  For this portion of the exercise program, I'll need you to have a hardcover book in your pants .  Trust me !  It will come in handy later .  There you go .  Alright, and run from the bully !  Run from the bully !  Run from the bully !  Run from the bully !  Keep those knees up .  Keep those knees up !  Run !  He wants your lunch money .  You don't wanna give it to him .  That's your lunch money !  Your mom gave it to you- ow !  You gotta get the book way down in there .  That's an important part of the program .  Keep going !  Run home to your mommy !  Your mommy is on the other end, and she will protect you !  You can do it, my fellow nerds !  You can do it !  Keep those legs up .  Keep those knees up .  Feel the burn !  Oh no, you're slowing down .  You're slowing down .  You're not as fit as you like .  Oh, he's catching up !  He's ca- oh no .  Oh no .  Oh no .  You're gonna have to fight the bully .  Now, when it comes time to confront your bully, I'm not gonna tell you to throw a punch - that wouldn't be very nerdy of you .  Here's what we're gonna do .  We're gonna dodge !  We're gonna dodge !   And dodge !   And dodge !  You're gonna need to deflect punches .  Dodge, and deflect !  Dodge, and deflect !  Why is that funny ?  *laughter*  Dodge, and deflect !   And dodge, deflect !  Dodge, deflect !  Nerdfighters don't throw punches !   But we do deflect them !  Dodge, deflect !  Dodge, deflect !  Dodge, deflect !  Dodge, deflect !  This isn't just aerobic - it also builds muscle .   And dodge, deflect !   And dodge, deflect !  Okay !  You've beaten the bully .  Congratulations .  You have, successfully, dodged and deflected his punches until he got bored and ran away .  He did get in a couple of belly shots - that's why you had the book .  It hurt him more than it hurt you .  Alright nerds, we're near the end of our day, and therefore, near the end of our fitness workout .  What do we love to do in the evening after our homework is done ?  A lot of us like to read, but others of us like to play video games .  So, this is the video game section .  Let's start with a warm up !  The  " It's-a me, Mario !  "  It's-a me, Mario !  It's-a me, Mario !  It's-a me, Mario !  I'm dizzy .  Let's move on .   And up !  Up !  Down !  Down !   And left !   And right !   And left !   And right !   And B !   And A !  Start !  Up !  Up !  Down !  Down !   And left !   And right !   And B !   And A !   And Start !  Up !  Up !  Down !  Down !  Left !  Right !  Left !  Right !  B !  A !  Start .  Up !  Up !  Down !  Down !  Left !  Right !  Left !  Right !  B !  A !  Start !  For those of you born after 1985, this is called the Konami Code .   And up !  Up !  Down !  Down !  Left !  Right !  Left !  Right !  B !  A !  Start !  Willy's my workout partner .  You're doing great today, my friend .  I love your energy .  You never seem to get tired !  Okay, three more Konami Codes !  Up !  Up !  Down !  Down !  Left !  Right !  Left !  Right !  B !  A !  Start !  Up !  Up !  Down !  Down !  Left !  Right !  Left !  Right !  B !  A !  Start !  Big one !  Up !  Up !  Down !  Down !  Left !  Right !  Left !  Right !  B !  A !  Start !  You did it !  I'm proud of you !  Oh, I'm suffering .  Nerdfighters, you've done a great job today getting fit with your fitness master, John Green .  I want you to breathe deeply .  .  . and out .  .  .  Just let all the stress of the day out with your big breaths .  I want you to forget about the fact that you're wearing aqua leggings and argyle socks and purple lady-shorts .  I want you to forget about the fact that you're wearing a sweatshirt that was made for a girl, that has cut-off arms, and says  " Keep Dancing .  "  I want you to let it all go .   And what will come instead is peace and deep, sustaining, nerdiness .  Best wishes, my friends .  DFTBA .  *Heavy Breathing*                
Good Morning Hank, It's Monday, Labor Day 2010 .  I got attacked by a baby .  So Hank, I'm in love with your video from Friday where you exploited the relationship between privatized risk and public regulation .   And, Hank, there was something about your intelligence and your passion that made me think  " I need to start talking about the issues that are near and dear to my heart, even when they're controversial .  So I'm going to do it Hank, I'm going to say it: I hate pennies .  So, Hank, in the United States of America we have money, which we use to facilitate the exchange of goods and services .  The smallest unit of American Money is the Penny, which is worth one one-hundreth of a dollar .  So, Hank, here's the deal; because of inflation, in 1972 a penny was worth what a nickel is worth today, and yet in 1972 our economy managed to function just fine without having a coin that was worth one fifth of a penny .  Here's what bothers me, Hank: It costs the United States Mint 1 . 7 cents to make a penny, which means that every year 70 million dollars of federal tax money goes to subsidizing the existence of the penny .  Now, Hank, we can solve that problem by using Steel instead of Zinc to make pennies .   But, that wouldn't address the underlying problem which is that pennies are worthless .  No they aren't .  They aren't ?  No, because things that are worthless are worth nothing and pennies are worth much less then nothing .  So, there's this very important idea in Economics called Opportunity Cost that I'm not going to explain but basically anytime you are doing something you could be doing something else .   But, several studies have proven that the time Americans spend fiddling with pennies costs us money, as much as a billion dollars a year .  So every year American Taxpayers pay seventy million dollars to have the opportunity to lose a billion dollars in productivity costs .  There is no legitimate argument in favor of the penny .  Many studies have shown that it wouldn't raise prices, it wouldn't cut charitable contributions .  The only institution in the World that benefits from the existence of the penny is a company in Greeneville, Tennessee called Jarden Zinc Products .  For everyone else in the United States, pennies are not just worthless but incredibly expensive .   But that is not even the ultimate reason to get rid of the penny .  The ultimate reason is that, as I said in the beginning of this video, money exists to facilitate the exchange of goods and services, and pennies don't do that effectively .  All the places we usually use coins like Parking Meters and Vending Machines don't accept pennies because they are worthless .  I am turning into a giant squid of anger .  You know the only thing I hate more then pennies, Hank ?  Nickels .  A nickel, which is worth five cents, takes more then nine cents to produce .  Imagine, if you will, Hank, a situation in which you walk into a bank and say  " I have here this nickel .  Would you like to give me nine cents for it ?  "  .   And the bank says  " Yes "  .  That's what's happening with the US mint .  The real solution is that we have three coins: a dime, a fifty-cent piece, and a dollar .  If we did this, we would save billions of dollars annually, enough to pay for the job creation programs that politicians are fighting about on television all the time .   But we won't, Hank, for two reasons: one, because we're a species of sentimentalists .  The only reason we have pennies is because people like pennies, and they grew up with pennies, and they like Abraham Lincoln .   But let me tell you if Abraham Lincoln were alive today he would say  " Why is my face on a coin that is worth one twenty-sixth of what a penny was worth when I was president ?  "  .   And, second, because it is not an issue you can really fight about .  So about half of the main advocates for coinage reform have been Republicans and about half have been Democrats because it's not a political issue, it's just a rational issue .  It's not the kind of issue that fires up your base, or gets you reelected, it's something that's gonna save Americans billions of dollars and create lots of exciting efficiencies in our economy and eliminate these disgusting bacteria-ridden discs of suck that fail to facilitate commerce .  Alright, but speaking of commerce, Hank, just a reminder to Nerdfighteria, a Vlogbrothers shirt designed by nerdfighter Vondell Swain is available for pre-order at DFTBA . com, link in the doobly-doo .  It's only available for one more week, if you want one get it now .  We take Paypal, Credit Card, eCheck, really anything, except for pennies .   And nickels .                 
Good morning, Hank, It's Wednesday .  I'm in a parking lot .   So I love pranks .  I love pulling pranks, I love writing about pranks, in fact, one time I was in a Hollywood pitch meeting, and this a totally true story, and a Hollywood executive described my first novel,  " Looking for Alaska " , as  " Prank Academy with some sad bits .  "   Oh, Hollywood .  .  .  I love you .    But Hank, the only problem with pranks is that they're generally designed to hurt or diminish or humiliate someone else, right ?  For instance, when I recently threw you in a pool, that was designed to hurt you to make other people laugh .  I can't speak for other people, Hank, but seeing that sill makes me laugh .   So, anyway, my friend Amy Krouse Rosenthal recently called me with an amazing idea: Positive pranking .   Oh, hello Target .  I'm gonna need all your Tootsie Pops .   So Amy's idea is that you can use the pranking ethos to decrease worldsuck, and to launch this positive pranking campaign, she re-invented ding-dong ditching by delivering actual Hostess Ding-Dongs to strangers throughout Chicago - there's a link to watch that video in the doobly-doo - and then Amy gave me the idea that I could TP peoples' houses .  .  .  with Tootsie Pops .   So, first I bought all the Tootsie Pops at Target and a Diet Dr .  Pepper because I was thirsty .  Then I went home, typed up a note which you can read in the doobly-do, printed it out, and then signed all sixty copies of it .     And then I set off to TP some people .   So some mailboxes in my neighborhood have recently been the victim of negative pranking involving baseball bats, so I started off by TPing some of those mailboxes .  Then I went to Subway .    " These are for you .  They're a gift .  Just Tootsie Pops .   And can I have a six-inch on wheat ?  "   So eventually I developed a system wherein I combine TPing with ding-dong ditching .    " Ditch !  Go go go go go go !  "   Hank, doing it that way seriously got my heart rate spiking .  I mean, I was walking up there thinking  " Oh, God, I hope they don't open the door, "  and then I put down the TP and then I ring the doorbell and then DITCH !   And every single time I ran away like  " Panic !  Panic !  If these people find out that I'm trying to give them Tootsie Pops the consequences will never be the same !  "    But then I got the idea to TP the garden at my friend Chris and Marina's house, and then I taped a note to their bush so they'd know that they'd been positively pranked .   Then I went back to mailboxing for a while until finally I discovered this lonely and desolate island in the subdivision and thought,  " Y'know, someone should TP that island .  "   So, Hank, that's the story of my first go at being a positive prankster .  I now turn this idea over to you and Nerdfighteria .  Let's work together in comments to come up with some excellent positive prank ideas .  If you click on my face, you can watch Amy Krouse Rosenthal's original positive pranking video and get turned onto her amazing mission Amy-KR project .   And then Nerdfighters, if you want to do some positive pranking of your own, you should, and you should videotape it and then you should upload it as a video response to this video or Amy's video .   And our pranking shall heal the world AAH !  Oooohhhh .  .  .  Oohhh .  .  .  It hurts when it hits the chair .  .  .   I'm not gonna lie to you, Hank, my elbow could use a positive prank .  Nerdfighters, I hope that you guys find the idea of positive pranking as exciting and cool as I do .   Hank, it was fun hanging out with you in real life, but alas, we are back to this .  I will see you on the internet on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Monday .  I think we should do a theme week this week, and I think the theme should be  " Open letters to our 15-year-old brothers "  .  By the way,  " Do you like my shirt ?  "  is a rhetorical question, of course you like it .  Dear 15-year-old Hank, hi, it's me, John Green, your brother .  I know I look old .  15-year-old Hank, life is a lot like pizza .  One more question, is pizza American  .  .  .  or is it Italian ?  Or Greek, or Brazilian, where they eat more pizza than anyone in the whole world ?  Over 6,000 pizzerias in Brazil .  6,000 .  You could eat at a different pizzeria in Brazil every day for 18 years before you had to go to a place twice .  Unless you were eating pizza twice a day, which, lets face it, I would be .  So Hank, you're 15 .   And like a lot of 15-year-olds, you feel that when you are forced to read books in English class and look for metaphor and symbolism and theme and all that stuff, you are sort of being tortured .  By the way, 15-year-old Hank, I am now an author  .  .  .  huh ?  Here's what critical reading does, Hank: It helps us understand what to think about, and it gives us the framework for how to think about those things .  Ok, so let me give you an easy to comprehend example of what I'm talking about from this famously incomprehensible James Joyce novel, Ulysses .    So there's this Irish-Jewish guy Bloom and he is sitting in a bar and one of the guys he's talking to says:  "  But do you know what a nation means ?  "   " A nation ?  " , says Bloom,  " A nation is the same people living in the same place .  "   And then everybody starts to make fun of Bloom for his stupid definition .   And then Bloom adds:  " Or also living in different places .  "   But then as all the characters in the novel are laughing at Bloom, the reader realizes that, you know, we don't have a better definition for what constitutes a nation .  Or indeed what it means to have membership in any community .  I mean, Bloom is in this weird inbetween-space because he is Irish but he is also Jewish, which many characters in the novel see as inherently un-Irish .   But ultimately we all wanna feel like we're on the inside of our communities, whether it's Ireland or the United States or a high school clique or nerdfighteria .   And the question of whether there have to be outsiders in order for there to be insiders turns out to be a really interesting and difficult and complicated question, which is explored at length in Ulysses .   And thinking about   what we really mean when we talk about these identifiers is a much better starting place for conversations about who is or is not American or who is or is not a nerdfighter, rather than the current method of discourse, which is just to be like:  " Ahhhhhh !  I am a giant squid of anger !  I do not listen to you !  "    Which brings me to pizza, Hank .  Is pizza American ?  Surely there is a lot of pizza in America, thank goodness .  Hmmmmmm .  Pizza .   But pizza was originally Italian although Italian pizza doesn't taste very much like this because this pizza is fortified with sodium, which is a mineral .  Or a vitamin .  All I know is that it's good for you .  In fact, Hank, pizza is so ubiquitous it's a little bit difficult to say what pizza even is .  I mean, sometimes it comes without cheese, sometimes it comes without sauce .  Sometimes it comes without a crust in a bucket .   And people are the same way, Hank, and nation is the same people living in the same place or also in different places .  There are Italians in Italy, and there are Italians in America, and there are Italians of Chilean descent .  Everyone is laughing at Bloom in that bar but we should be the ones laughing at them .  They think there is there is some easy, uncomplicated definition of Irishness .   But in fact, Hank, the fundamental thing that all critical reading does is reveal to us that there are not easy definitions that distinguish us from them .  Reading with an eye toward metaphor allows us to become the person we're reading about while reading about them .  That's why there are symbols in books and why your English teacher deserves your attention .  Ultimately it doesn't matter if the author intended a symbol to be there because the job of reading is not to understand the author's intent .  The job of reading is to use stories as a way into seeing other people as we see ourselves and when we do that we can look out at the world and see a giant, endless set of beautiful variations of pizzas .  The whole world composed of billions of beautiful, delicious pizzas .  Hank, I'll see ya on Wednesday .  Did I make that entire video so that I could eat one piece of pizza on my diet ?  Maybe .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Wednesday .  In your video on Monday you talked about lots of ways I can keep from linguistically embarrassing myself and I appreciate that but I wanna add one small little thing .   As you pointed out the word  " effect "  can be used either as a noun or a verb, but I would like to give you some advice .  When you wanna use  " effect "  as a verb, don't .  Ever .  No matter what .   So Hank, as you know, I write books for a living and those books, on occasion, win awards, they're translated into many languages and they're often nicely reviewed around the world .  I mean, the  " New York Times book review "  once defined one of my books  " almost miraculous "  .  To which I say:  " Almost ?  "  .  So Hank, I tell you, this not to brag or to encourage nerdfighters to buy my books - although there are links to do so in the doobly-doo - but only to point out that being a professional person of letters, such as myself, does not mean that you will not, on occasion, make hideous grammatical mistakes such as the double negative in that sentence .  Crap double negatives !   Right to three years ago, we moved in Indianapolis and we had lot more space in Indianapolis, which meant we had to buy a lot of furniture .  So, one day after a couple of months we moved to Indiana we went to a furniture store, and I said to Sarah:  " Do you think we need a Chester drawers ?  "  .  Then she says:  " Do I think we need a what ?  "   " A Chester drawers "   " A what of drawers ?  "   " A Chester drawers, Sarah, do you think we need a Chester drawers ?  "  .  Then she looks over at me, the man she is contractually obligated to spend the rest of her life with, and says: -  " Well, we might need a chest of drawers "  .  - Ooooh, chest *of* drawers !  Not Chester drawers !   Also I was supposedly 25 years old when I realized the hors d'oeuvres I was eating at various function were exact the same thing as the  " hors doufres "  I was reading about in books .   And every time I would read a  " hors doufres "  in a book I would think  " That doesn't sound as a sophisticated thing to be doing, sounds something you would order at a brothel "  .   Hold on, I gotta Willy in .  - Hey, Willy - treat !  Come on, get the treat, get the treat !  Good news and bad news, Willy .  Good news: you're inside .  Bad news: the treat is a lie .   Hank, while we're on the topic I just wanna mention  " who "  and  " that "  .   " Who "  describes a person and  " that "  describes everything other than a person .  I mention this because one of my favorite bands is called  " The Avett Brothers "  or possibly  " The AvEtt Brothers "  or possibly  " The Aevett Brothers .  They sing that song that I really love - that I really love not who I really love - but the lyrics infuriate me because at one point they sing:  " I want to have friends that I can trust .  "  Friends you can trust like what ?  Like a tomato plant or a Super Nintendo or a tennis racket because if you mean a person then it's  " who "  not  " that "  !    But let me just acknowledge that the job of grammar and pronunciation is to make language as clear and efficient and transparent as possible, right ?   But if we're all constantly correcting each other's grammars and being really snotty about it, then people stop talking because they start to be petrified that they will make some kind of terrible grammatical error and that's the precisely the opposite of what grammar's supposed to do which is to facilitate clear communication .   So I propose that in comments today, instead of recounting all of the times that we mixed up the words  " orgasm "  and  " organism "  in biology class - which happened a lot, according to the comments from your Monday video - we all come together and non-snottily ask and answer grammatical and pronunciation questions we've always had .  For instance, as you've probably noticed, I don't know how to pronounce  " The Avett Brothers "  or  " Aevett Brothers "  or  " Ah-vet Bro-vairs "  .  I also, despite working with words for a living, do not have an A number one handle on the difference between  " lie "  and  " lay "  .  So what don't you understand ?   And if you know the answers, share them; non-snottily .   Hank, I'm on my way to Waupaca, Wisconsin, where I'll be speaking on Friday and Saturday   but Edgar will see you on Friday, except not really, because his eyes are closed .                 
Crowd:  " Good morning Hank, it's Monday !  "  I woke up around eight, in Chicago on my friend Shannon's couch .   " Couch sleeping is the best sleeping .  "  I borrowed Shannon's toothbrush--sorry Shannon, it was an emergency--restored the couch to its former glory and then hit the road .  Why do I drive a station wagon ?   " 'Cause I'm a boss .  "  I was headed to a book festival in Waupaca, Wisconsin but first I had to drive through Chicago, which has always been my favorite American city .  A city of so many neighborhoods that you can never discover them all .  A city as Carl Sandburg wrote  " under the terrible burden of destiny laughing as a young man laughs .  "  By the way, that place has great produce .  I made it to the highway and then drove north for three hours .  Along the way it all at once became fall .  Then I finally made it to Waupaca--a city of 6,000 people with three independent bookstores .  A librarian had recommended that I visit this place called Brainard's Bridge Park and so I headed straight there because I have found over the years that librarians make excellent recommendations .   And the park was no exception .  There was this beautiful river and this tree that refused to stop being a tree despite considerable challenges .   And then I found this walking path  " two roads diverged in a yellow wood and I "  I took the road more traveled by because I did not want to get lost in Waupaca, Wisconsin .  I walked for a long time .  It was really beautiful .   And there I was awash in the majesty of it all thinking,  " I need to pee and I can't decide if I'm adequately in the woods right now to pee here or if I need to go back to the park and find a bathroom .  So .  .  . yeah .  "  Just for the record, I ended up walking back to the park restroom .  I am gonna go ahead and wager that this person has Elvis flags for most of the major holidays .  So I drove over to Waupaca High School to speak .     " This is all voice over so you can say whatever you want .  "  Girl:  " Yay !  "   And somebody gave me a cheese head which was nice .  It was weird to talk to people after having spent ten hours by myself but it always makes me happy to see, for instance, a handmade DFTBA shirt .  I signed books for awhile and then I went to the amazing Waupaca public library's amazing teen room where there is a poster of you on the wall, and a space for gaming, and a chandelier that played your music .  Some teens and I played this incredibly complicated game of bunny murdering .   And then I went to a fancy cocktail party for the festival where I met up with noted positive pranker Amy Krouse Rosenthal who's organizing this event--when Amy ?  Amy:  " 10/10/10 at 10:10pm .  "  At the bean sculpture in Chicago .  It's a kind of sequel to 8/8/08 .  I'll be there playing a very minor role .  If you want to learn how to participate click this screen or read all about it in the dooblydoo .  Anyway, it was a great party but at one point a 91 year old woman got sick and an ambulance came and took her off to the hospital .  For maybe half an hour after the ambulance came it was quiet .   And then it got louder and then louder still .  As all of us, under the terrible burden of destiny, found a way to keep laughing .   " Bedtime .  "  Hank, I'll see you on Wednesday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Friday .  So today's video was going to be about this Nerdfighter gathering on Sunday at five pm in Chicago before the Beckoning of Lovely thing, more info up there if you're interested   .   And about how people with social anxiety who choose to spend all of their time in their basement writing stories and talking into a video camera can sometimes be very uncomfortable with   hugging and  .  .  .  pictures and stuff .  But then   GUESS WHAT CAME IN THE MAIL GUESS WHAT CAME IN THE MAIL ?  DID YOU GUESS THAT IT'S THE GIGANTIC DICTIONARY OF THE LAST WORDS OF FAMOUS PEOPLE BECAUSE IF NOT YOU GUESSED WRONG OH MY GOD OH MY GOD OH MY GO-O-O-OD !  I'm shy in real life, but when I'm in my basement alone with the video camera on I  .  .  .  sometimes geek out . That's right, Hank, someone has written a six hundred seventy-one paged book containing more than three thousand people's last words .  Hank, as you know, the narrator of Looking for Alaska - my first book - is obsessed with the last words of famous people, an obsession that I share .  In fact, I don't wanna brag, but I'm mentioned in this book:  " Rabelais's last words took on wider popularity and discussion when they were prominently used in John Green's 2006 Printz Award winning novel, Looking For Alaska .  " I mean, Hank, this book contains all the last words I've never known but wanted to know, like the actor Douglas Fairbanks, he was asked how he was feeling, and his last words were:  " I've never felt better .  "  And, Hank, I've always wanted to know William Faulkner's last words, the brilliant Southern novelist who I grew up admiring so much, it turns out his last words aren't famous because they're boring .  He said  " Yes, Jim, I will, "  to his brother-in-law in a conversation about getting picked up from the hospital .  Right, terrible last words, but Faulkner did write the best resignation letter ever .  He resigned from the United States Postal Service in 1924, and I'm swear I'm not making this up, with the following letter: " As long as I live under the Capitalistic system, I expect to be influenced by the demands of moneyed people, but I will be damned if I propose to be at the beck and call of every itinerant scoundrel who has two cents to invest in a postage stamp .  This, sir, is my resignation .  "  Signed William Boss Faulkner . Ben Franklin's last words:  " A dying man can do nothing easy .  " The British composer Josh Field, when asked whether he was a Catholic or a Calvinist, said:  " I'm a pianist .  " The last words of American president Millard Fillmore which I quoted in Looking For Alaska as being  " The nourishment is palatable, "  wherein fact  " The nourishment is palpable .  " The physicist Richard Feynman:  " This dying is boring .  " Department store owner Marshall Field II:  " What are my chances of recovery, doctor ?  "  I mean, in retrospect .  .  .  zero . The poet Robert Frost:  " I feel as though I were in my last hours .  "  And that's just a selection in the F's, Hank .    There are twenty-five other letters represented in this remarkable collection of the last words of famous people .  I'm not going to lie to you, Hank, last night I stayed up 'til three in the morning reading this . I mean, don't get me wrong, Hank, I enjoyed the Hunger Games trilogy but did it keep me on the edge of my seat like Last Words of Notable People ?  No way !  Sarah kept saying  " Turn off the light, "  and I would be like  " Sarah, did you know that the last words of Archimedes were: 'Wait until I've finished my problem . ' ?  " Okay, Hank, I'm going to go back to reading because I just got to the G's and I can't wait to find out what Goethe's last words were .   But Nerdfighters, I have a question for you on the topic of what this video was going to be about: Have you ever met Hank or me in real life ?   And, if so, please give me an honest appraisal of that experience .  Like, were you disappointed that in real life we are so poorly edited, or was our general weirdness kind of off-putting, or did you have fun, and-and would you do it again ?  Uh, let us know . Uh, I a-actually skipped ahead and found out the last words of Goethe .  He said:  " More light !  " Hank, I'll see ya on Monday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Wednesday !   Good morning, Hank, it's Wed- hold on, Chilean miner coming to the surface .   He's safe .  What, am I made of stone ?   So Hank, all day long I've been crying, of course, like everyone who's watching this .   And Henry's been looking at me all day with his head tilted to the side like  " Do you need a diaper change ?  Is it opposite day ?  Do you just want someone to hold you ?  Because I can't hold you, I'm only two-foot-four, but I can try to arrange for someone .  Do you need to take a nap ?  Sometimes when I do that it's just 'cause I need to take a nap .  Is it night-night time ?  "    And I'm trying to explain to him that no, it's the Chilean miners and the Chilean president and their families and the reunions .  .  .  ughhh .   Hank, I don't know if the president of Chile is good at being the president of Chile, but I know this, he is good at being president of the independent nation of making me cry-le .   Alright, in other news, why am I doing my happy dance ?  Because I couldn't do it in front of hundreds of Nerdfighters at the Bean in Chicago because I'm too socially awkward, but I can do it in my basement !  By the way, this is what it looks like when hundreds of Nerdfighters do their happy dance at the Bean in Chicago .   Hank, the Beckoning of Lovely was just crazy beautiful, with like a thousand people coming together with Amy Krouse Rosenthal to welcome everything lovely into the world .  Also, I got to meet a lot of Nerdfighters, several of whom have etched permanent reminders not to forget to be awesome onto their bodies .   And- and- and- and one time I came up with this idea that romantic relationships are pretty predictable and that each romantic relationship has a limited set of possible outcomes: break-up, divorce or death .   And that therefore a mathematical formula predicting who will end a relationship and when ought to be possible if you know some basic facts about the two people involved in the relationship .   And then, lacking the mathematical talent required to create such a formula, I wrote a novel about someone who could write a formula like that and had the actual formula written by my friend Brotherhood 2 . 0 resident mathematician and future state representative Daniel Biss .   And then, Hank, someone permanently tattooed that formula onto her arm .   Is this real life ?   Hank, in other news of lovely, lots of people have been asking us why we haven't made an  " It Gets Better "  video .  The reason for this is that I feel like other people have said what I would say better than I would say it .  So instead of making an  " It Gets Better "  video, I have made a playlist called  " It Doesn't Get Better .  .  .  Than These 'It Gets Better' Videos .  "  You can find that playlist in the doobly-doo, there have been some awesome videos and you should check it out, even if you aren't wondering if it gets better, which it does .   I mean, we live in this irreparably broken world, and I don't wish to deny reality, but the amazing thing to me is not that we refuse to relinquish hope as a species, the amazing thing is that we're right to hold on to hope .  The world may be broken, but hope is not crazy .  For the first 17 days after the mine collapsed, those miners lived 2,000 feet under the ground on two days worth of rations with no knowledge that anyone was ever going to come for them .  Obviously not all stories end happily, we don't always have good fortune, but hope gives us as a species and as individuals what we otherwise wouldn't have: a chance .   Alright, Hank, they're about to bring out another guy, so I'm gonna go .  I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good Morning Hank it's Friday .  Hank your song on Wednesday was brilliant - the best song ever written about particle physics .  Frankly, Hank it was almost intimidatingly good, like it made me sad I'm not more talented .  I mean I realize I write books and to some people that qualifies as a talent, but let me remind you Hank: Lauren Conrad writes books .    But anyway Hank, there's something I've been wanting to ask you .  I've always had this dream that, just like we have this collaborative video channel, someday- y'know, this is awkward- but maybe someday we could be on stage playing music together ?   And I know that I can't sing, and that you play the guitar, and I don't have any rhythm so I couldn't do bass or drums - but Hank, for the last several months I have been learning a musical instrument in the hopes that, y'know like maybe I could be in your band .   Come on, Green !  You can do it .      That's right, Hank .  I wanna be your Sing-a-ma-jig player .  I mean I've been thinking about it Hank - what is keeping you from becoming the next Justin Bieber ?  You've got the lyrics, you can play the guitar, you've got a great look, it's a little nerdy but it works, and your quark song on Wednesday was a great example of how you always write about subjects that matter .  Or at least, the subject of matter .  Hank, what's standing between you and the next level in your career: to paraphrase the great Christopher Walken,  " You need more Sing-a-ma-jig .  "   Hank I know what you're wondering, why should you hire me to be your Sing-a-ma-jig player, I mean anyone with two hands can make Sing-a-ma-jigs harmonize .   And that's true Hank, anyone with two hands can make Sing-a-ma-jigs harmonize .   But can they make four Sing-a-ma-jigs harmonize ?  No they can't, because they have not been practicing the instrument of the Sing-a-ma-jig nonstop for months like I have !   And it's not just harmony Hank, I can make melodies .  Hmmmm ?   By the way Hank, I don't know if you knew about these things before today because you don't have a child, but our friend Marina bought them for Henry, and after about 45 seconds of playing with one he looked up at me .   And his eyes said:  " Hey, Dad, quick favor .  I'm gonna need you to go to the store and buy me 500,000 Sing-a-ma-jigs .  "   And Henry just woke up from his nap so I have to go but that's all I wanted to say, I just wanted to throw my hat into the ring as a potential Sing-a-ma-jig player, if, y'know, you ever find yourself in need of one .  Nerdfighters, there's only one week left to pre-order Hank's T-shirt-tastic ode to giraffes who love giraffes, link in the dooblydoo .   And Hank, I'll see you on Monday .                 
It's Wednesday .  By the way, Hank, I can't help but notice that in your video on Monday you failed to address the pressing question of whether I can be your Sing-a-ma-jig player .    Please ?   So, Hank, a Nerdfighter made Henry a Halloween costume .  You'll never guess what he's going as .    PIZZA-A-A-A !  Omnomnomnomnomnomnomnomnom .     Hank, in news of children not dressed as pizza, Shawn, from the Uncultured Project is in Bangladesh right now working with Save the Children to help ten thousand kids .  In a project funded by Nerdfighteria .  Stay tune to his Twitter and YouTube channel, links in the dooblydoo .   And, since Shawn got to Bangladesh, he has received news that the pond sand filter that Nerdfighteria funded is still up and running .  Nerdfighters .     Hank, in further news of world suck reduction, many Nerdfighters have asked where they can get a bracelet like mine that says,  " This star won't go out, "  these bracelets honor Ester Earl, a friend and fellow Nerdfighter who died a couple months ago from cancer .  There is now an answer to your question, you can go to DFTBA . COM/ESTER, and you will find bracelets for sale .  Hank, we bought the bracelets and Alan at DFTBA Records has offered to process and package every order for free, which means, Nerdfighters, that 100% of the money you spend on these bracelets will go directly to the This Star Won't Go Out Foundation, which is a new organization founded by Ester's family to help other families with kids who have cancer .  The This Star Won't Go Out Foundation is another way that with Ester we can find a way to make the world suck less, so, get your bracelet .  DFTBA . COM/ESTER .   Dah, and there's something else, Hank, the other day I did a BlogTV show where we raise a lot of money to help James at War's cat get a surgery, and then we also raised an equal amount of money to fight Malaria - by the way, if you don't know who James at War is, you're missing out, dooblydoo - so we raised enough money to get James at War's cat a surgery, but it turns out the surgery was cheaper than they expected so James at War and his wife drove from Texas to Chicago to give me a check for the difference, and I just put the check in my pocket because I figured it was like ten dollars or something - I'm looking for my, uh, French the Llama llama, this is why we're gonna be a top class YouTuber .  .  .  no props - then a couple days later I'm preparing to do laundry and I'm going through my pants, and what do I find but a check for five hundred forty dollars and this is where I need French the Llama to make my French the Llama joke !    There it is, it was right there the whole time !  Then a couple days later I'm going through my pants and getting ready to do the laundry, and I find the check, and I open it up, and then I'm like  " French the Llama, five hundred forty dollars ?  "  So, Hank, as much as I wish it were, this five hundred forty dollars is not my money, it's Nerdfighteria's money, so I have to ask you, Nerdfighters, where you want this money to go .  My inclination is to donate it to the This Star Won't Go Out project - did you get your bracelet yet, by the way ?  Get your bracelet - and then do a matching BlogTV show for the Uncultured Project and Save the Children, or we can do it the other way around, or we can do something else entirely, I don't know, it's not my money, it's your money, so let me know what we should do with it in comments .   Thank you, James, for negotiating with your vet to make your cat's surgery so freaking cheap .   Nerdfighteria, thank you for all that you do to decrease World Suck from your own communities all the way to Bangladesh, thank you for being awesome, Hank, I will see you   huh ?                 
Good morning Hank it is Monday, November 1st, which to many nerdfighters is the beginning of NaNoWriMo, or National Novel Writing Month, in which thousands of people write a novel in a single month, thereby making me very jealous of them .   I am not doing NaNoWriMo this year, but I am doing NaFADOYBIMSCOM, National Finish A Draft Of Your Book I Mean Seriously Come On Month .  Seriously, Green .  Come On !  Okay, Hank, often when we try to learn about something with nerdfighteria, whether it's like quarks or The Catcher in the Rye, we see comments in which people are like,  " Aw, I wish you were my chemistry teacher !  "  or  " You would make a great English teacher !  "  and I'm always really flattered by that, but unfortunately it's completely untrue because there's this huge gulf between that which is informational and that which is actually educational .   Consider the lemming .  .  .  is a good name for a band .  So Hank, you know about lemmings .  They were turned into a series of fantastic computer games .  Lemmings are tiny little rodents that live in the *reacts negatively to intrusion of lemming picture* not so close, please .  Better .  Right, so lemmings are tiny rodents that live in the Arctic, and the one thing we all know about lemmings is that when their population gets too big, lemmings like to commit mass suicide by jumping off of cliffs .  We've known this for a long time, Sigmund Freud referenced it in a lot of his work, and in fact you can see lemmings commit mass suicide if you watch the 1958 Academy Award winning documentary White Wilderness, made by the Disney company    #1: It's a very famous documentary, Hank .  #2: Yea, mostly famous for staging lemming suicide .  #1: Well, yes, yes, tha-- technically true .     Lemmings are not suicidal, they're just stupid, and sometimes when stupid animals go running, they run over cliffs .   But for this documentary, White Wilderness, the creators really wanted to have footage of lemmings committing suicide, and they couldn't find any of it, because lemmings don't suicide, so what they did, was they got a bunch of lemmings, they shipped them across Canada, and then they forced them to commit suicide .  Now Hank, that story raises a lot of interesting questions, including,  " If you are forced to commit suicide, did you commit suicide ?  "  and  " To what extent can we rely on film and video documentaries to be factual ?  "  and  " How can we as viewers constantly stay mindful of all of the events that are happening outside of the frame ?  "  .    Oh, I know I just Vogued, Hank .  I'm a dancer !   And to discuss those questions with any complexity, it would of course be necessary to read Susan Sontag's brilliant book  " Regarding the Pain of Others " , and a bunch of other stuff that we can't talk about in four minutes .   So, the fact that the Walt Disney Company staged the suicide of lemmings is an interesting fact, and it's informational, but it's not ultimately educational, and that's one of the problems, at least so far, with the internet .  The internet is really really good at providing information; it has proven less good at providing education .  So Hank your song about quarks is a wonderful wonderful song, and it helps me to understand some things about quarks, but it doesn't give me the entire context that I need in order to understand, you know, particle physics .   The problem with being a teacher is you have to teach not only the interesting stuff, but the context for the interesting stuff, which is often incredibly boring .  Like, I can tell you that a very significant event in the French Revolution occurred in an indoor tennis court, and I can tell you that Marie Antoinette wanted to have fancy last words but her actual last words were  " Sir, I beg your pardon, "  after she stepped on her executioner's foot, and I can tell you that Jean-Jacques Rousseau, who's political philosophy so deeply influenced the French Revolution, liked to be spanked by girls so much that he would sometimes drop his drawers in the hopes that they would smack him .   In a related story, ineffective strategy is ineffective .    But, knowing all of those facts would not actually lead to you having an informed understanding of the French Revolution .  While I think we've gotten pretty good at informationalism, I don't think that we've gotten very educational, yet .    But that's about to change .  Hank, beginning Friday and then continuing all next week, we are going to make a solid effort to be educational .   And nerdfighteria, in this attempt we need your help .  Let us know what you would like us to talk about .  Like, is there something in school that you don't understand, and would like to understand ?  Or, if you're done with school, is there something that you didn't learn in school that you wish you'd learned ?   Thank you for your suggestions, thank you for being awesome, and Hank,  .  .  . oh, pumpkins !   Hank !  Pumpkins, pumpkins, pumpkins !   Pumpkins !  Nerdfighters, so many of you chose to make nerdfightastic pumpkins this year .  Thank you .  My favorite .  .  this one !  A  " This Star Won't Go Out "  pumpkin .  Which reminds me nerdfighters, get your Esther bracelets .  DFTBA . COM/ESTHER .  100% of the proceeds go to the This Star Won't Go Out foundation .   Thank you for being awesome .  Hank, I will see you on Wednesday .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Friday .  Today I share with you a story about guns, indoor tennis courts, guillotines, humorous outfits and competing historical narratives .  That's right !  It's time to learn about  " The French Revolution .  "  OK, so quick background: This is France, France is in Europe, French people like to eat food, and one other thing, in the 18th century, there was this movement called the Enlightenment wherein people including French people like Jean-Jacques Rousseau and Voltaire were starting to argue that rational thought should be the source of truth and authority instead of the interpreted will of an omnipotent God .  That was a slightly troubling thought to the French monarchy, which, after all, derived its authority, and therefore its ability to purchase humorous outfits, from the supposed will of that aforementioned omnipotent God .  OK, so it's 1789, the US has just won its Revolutionary War, which by the way, would have been impossible without the support of France .  Meanwhile, France has racked up tremendous debts supporting the American Revolution and also fighting the Seven Years' War; like to give you a sense of France's debt, a lot of people in the US worry about our national debt, but in 2009, the United States spent 5% of its federal budget servicing its debt .  In 1789, France spent 50% of its federal budget servicing its debt .  So France was completely broke, but the King of France, Louis XVI, was not broke; as evidenced by his well-fed physique and fancy footwear .  Louis XVI and his wife Marie Antoinette had a pretty comfortable life in the rather nice palace at Versailles, which is the kind of thing that will annoy you if you are a peasant who is starving .  As I mentioned earlier, French people, like a lot of people, enjoy eating .  So in 1789, in additions to France's debt crisis, there was a famine .  The price of bread rose 50% in one year but wages didn't go up at all .  So the peasants are hungry, the intellectuals are beginning to question whether power should be centered in the church and the monarchy, and the nobility is dithering about, failing to make meaningful financial reform .  So in May of 1789, Louis XVI, recognizing the crisis, calls the Convocation of the Estates General, a meeting of the three estates of France .  The First Estate is the clergy; the Second Estate, the nobility; and the Third Estate, everyone else .  Which is to say, about 98% of the population .  The Third Estate is paying all the taxes, producing all the wealth, fighting in all wars .  Meanwhile the First Estate, the clergy, pay absolutely nothing in taxes - I mean, they have to be celibate, but still, no taxes !   And then the Second Estate, the nobility, spends most of each day playing an increasingly high-stakes game of who can develop the most humorous costumes .  So the Third Estate shows up with about 600 representatives, the First and Second Estates have about 300 representatives each .  The Third Estate wants the representatives from all the Estates to meet together in one assembly, which would basically become a governing parliament in which the Third Estate would have a very slight majority .   But the First and Second Estate  won't agree to this, so the Third Estate is like,  " Fine, you don't wanna come to our party ?  Forget you guys !  We, the representatives of the Third Estate, are now the National Assembly of France !  We are your parliament !  "  This does not please King Louis XVI .  So when the Third Estate people leave the room for a break, Louis XVI locks the doors, and says,  " Ah, sorry, you can't go in there .   And if you can't assemble, you can't be an assembly .  "  At which point, the Third Estate representatives were like,  " Mmm, I think we may have a solution to this problem .  "  The Third Estate representatives, surprisingly, are able to find a different room in France, an indoor tennis court at Versailles .   And in that room, the new National Assembly swears the famous Tennis Court Oath, in which they agree that they will not stop until they have written a French constitution .  At this point Louis XVI sees the writing on the wall, he backs down, he says,  " OK, you guys can be a national assembly .  "   But, at the same time, Louis XVI is flooding the city of Paris with troops who are loyal to him .  So people naturally start to think that Louis XVI might intend to destroy the National Assembly by force, at which point the revolutionaries, get a bright idea .  So on July 14th, 1789, the revolutionaries storm the Bastille Prison, not so much because they wanted to free the seven prisoners who remained there, but because wanted guns .   And there were a lot of them in the Bastille .   And this marked a big turning point in the French Revolution: The governor of the Bastille negotiated a ceasefire, which saved a lot of lives on both sides .   And that would've been a great time for everyone to say,  " You know what ?  If we start shooting at each other, this is probably gonna get worse .  "   But instead, they killed the governor of the Bastille, decapitated him, put his head on a pike, a paraded it around .  The next month, the National Assembly released the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, the French equivalent to the American Declaration of Independence .  The Declaration declared that all men - sorry ladies - had the right to liberty, property, and security, rights that, the French Revolution, in the end, would do an exceptionally poor job of protecting .  Meanwhile, back at Versailles, Louis XVI was still King of France, and it was looking like France might be a constitutional monarchy .  Which might've meant that the royal family could hang on to their awesome house, but then, in October of 1789, a rumor started that Marie Antoinette was hoarding grain somewhere inside the palace .   And in what became known as the Women's March, a bunch of armed peasant women stormed the palace and demanded that Louis and Marie Antoinette move from Versailles to Paris .  Which they did, because everyone is afraid of armed peasant women .  So between May and October of 1789, France went from a stable, if somewhat broke, monarchy, to a country where a bunch of armed peasant women could functionally put the King under house arrest .  A country where no one quite knew who was running the show and everyone had guns .  This problem will soon get better, and then worse, and then a little bit better, and then much worse, and then better, and then Napoleonically worse, so stay tuned for that next time .  Hank, I look forward to you teaching me something on Monday .  By the way, with permission from Nerdfighteria, we have temporarily suspended the four-minute rule, just to get us through this week of educational videos .  So those of you who are commenting on how punished I am, clearly did not watch 'til the end of the video .  Which means that you missed out on me proving that my suit   isn't all business .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Wednesday .  We now return to the French Revolution, where, at the end of 1789, King Louis XVI and his wife, Marie Antoinette, find themselves under house arrest in Paris, while the French National Assembly is trying to write a constitution .  We shall skip the year 1790 entirely, except to note that, 1 .  the National Assembly was not making anyone less hungry, and 2 .  the financial crisis continued, and also 3 .  a lot of nobles were starting to take their money and leave France, because being a noble in France, which had once been among the very best jobs in the entire world, was suddenly becoming sort of dangerous and unprofitable .  These nobles were called the Emigres, only I'm pronouncing it wrong, because I'm American, and we pronounce everything in American .  By the middle of 1791, Louis and Marie Antoinette were starting to think,  " You know, that Emigres life sounds pretty awesome .  "   But they couldn't leave France, because they still fancied themselves the king and queen of it .  So this general named Bouille comes along, and says,  " Listen, come live at my estate in the French countryside .  Blue skies, clean air, no revolutionaries plotting your destruction .  .  .  "  For making this offer, by the way, Bouille would later be likened to a  " bloodthirsty despot "  in the French National Anthem .   But anyway, in July   of 1791, Louis and Marie Antoinette decide to ride out for Bouille's country estate .  They dress up as servants, have their servants dress up as royals, sneak out of their house arrest, and if you've ever read a Shakespeare play, you know what happens next .  The ruse is discovered and everyone lives happily ever after .  Well, the ruse was discovered, anyway .  Still dressed as servants, Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette are captured in the city of Varennes just one day after leaving, and they are humiliatingly returned to Paris in their servant get-up .   But the worst part about all of this is that some of the more radical revolutionaries, including a group called the Jacobins, argued that Louis XVI leaving Paris amounted to him basically abdicating the throne, and that, therefore, France has no king, which means that France can now become a Republic .  Alright, so, the next month, July, these Jacobins have a huge petition drive in the Champ de Mars and lots of people come to sign the petition, saying,  " Yes, the king abdicated his throne, we should be a republic !  "   And then, troops controlled not by the king, but by the National Assembly, show up and end up firing on the crowd, killing fifty people .  Now, you'll remember, the National Assembly was the voice of the revolution, the people who started the idea of a representational government for France, who went to that indoor tennis court in Versailles and pledged not to stop until we have a constitution !   But suddenly, it's the National Assembly firing on a crowd to try to control revolutionary fervor .  You see this all the time in history during economic contractions .  What looked like radical hope and change a year ago suddenly becomes  " The Man .  "   But by September of 1791, the National Assembly finally finishes its constitution, fulfilling the Tennis Court Oath and ushering in a constitutional monarchy in which the Legislative Assembly has most of the power, but the king has veto power on certain things .  Around the same time, France's neighbors start to get pretty nervous about all this talk about  " representational government .  "  Especially the Holy Roman Empire, which, as Voltaire once famously noted, was neither holy, nor Roman, nor an empire .  The Holy Roman Empire was a loose confederation of states, and the Holy Roman Emperor was a guy named Leopold II, who was not holy, not Roman, and not an emperor, since basically he only directly controlled Austria .   But he was Marie Antoinette's brother .  Also, like a lot of monarchs, Leopold II liked the idea of monarchies, and he wanted to keep his job as a person who gets to stand around wearing a dress, pointing at nothing, owning winged lion-monkeys made of gold .   And who can blame him ?  Leopold II figured that having a neighbor turn into a republic might be bad for his job security, so he, along with King Frederick William II of Prussia, issued the Declaration of Pillnitz, which promised to restore the French monarchy and, naturally, further radicalized the revolutionaries in France .  Also, it's worth mentioning again that nothing that the Assembly, or the Jacobins, or King Louis XVI has done has done anything to address the underlying problems, which is that the French people are hungry and the country of France is broke .   But then, in April of 1792, finally, King Louis XVI and the National Assembly agree upon a plan .  Let's invade Austria .  The idea was to plunder Austria's wealth, and also sure up the food supply by stealing delicious Austrian cuisine .  Also, the revolutionaries thought that they might be able to, like, topple all of the European monarchies and spread revolution through the world, which made Prussia a little nervous, so they immediately joined Austria in a war against France .  So, by August of 1792, France is still poor, people are still hungry, but now, they're fighting two wars .   And it is then that a group of radical revolutionaries, led by the Jacobins, arrange for a Parliamentary session to which they cleverly do not invite the vast majority of Parliament, and declare France to be a republic, thereby invalidating France's year-old constitution .   And then, things get pretty bad pretty fast .  Allow me to introduce you to my friend, the guillotine .  During the monarchy, commoners and nobles had been put to death using different methods .   But of course, that's not going to work in an age of Enlightenment .  The thinking went that capital punishment should be egalitarian and rationalist .  So everyone should have the same death, and it should be humane .  Because, of course, rationally, we don't want to hurt condemned criminals; we just want to kill them .  Which is precisely what happened to King Louis the XVI in January of 1793, thereby making it very difficult for Austria and Prussia to fulfill their promise of returning him to the throne .  Within a month of decapitating their king, France was at war not only with Prussia and Austria, but also with Spain, Great Britain, the Netherlands, and Portugal .  In short, things seemed pretty bad .   But don't worry: they're about to get much worse .  Hank, I'm going to stop there for today, so Marie Antoinette can live until tomorrow afternoon .  My last French Revolution video will be uploaded tomorrow, and then you will educate us further on Friday, so I guess that I will see me tomorrow .  At which point I promise to prove that I am not wearing pants .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Thursday .  We left off yesterday in our study of the French Revolution in early 1793 with King Louis XVI being separated from his head via guillotine, and France is ensuing war with almost all of Europe .  Meanwhile, and I don't want to overemphasize this, no one has done anything to fix the famine !  So these poor laborers, known as the sans-culottes, because they wore pants instead of shorts, or, humorous outfits, they start rioting .   And eventually, these guys and the Jacobins get an idea to solve the famine, which is even worse than the idea of going to war with Austria: government price controls for bread .  This of course fails miserably, and eventually, having failed at stealing grain from the rest of Europe, the French government sends its army into the countryside to steal grain from itself .  All this happened under the leadership of the Committee of Public Safety, motto  " we suck at protecting public safety " , which was lead by Maximilien Robespierre, a fascinatingly paranoid despot who would foreshadow fascinatingly paranoid despots like Kim Jong Il and Saddam Hussein and Joseph Stalin .  Robespierre and the Committee of Public Safety hated anyone associated in any way with the church or the royalty .   And between the summers of 1793 and 1794, they oversaw the guillotining of over 16,000 people .  Including many nobility, many inadequately revolutionary revolutionaries, clergy who refused to sign an oath to the government, and of course, in October, Marie Antoinette .  Marie Antoinette, the king's wife, who for the record never said  " Let them eat cake " , and who, like almost everyone else murdered during the terror, posed absolutely no threat to the government .  So what had just recently been the First and Second Estates of the France, the people who ran the show, had suddenly become the enemies of this new secular state .   And in the end, this led to a lasting decline in the relevance of religion and class to governments and economies in Europe .  The rampant guillotining during the terror is often seen as an example of enlightenment thinking run amok, but in fact, more people were killed by guns during the terror than by the guillotines, so .  .  . yeah .  .  . no .  However, among the people killed by the guillotine was Robespierre, who, after a year of being paranoid that people were trying to kill him, of course inevitably got himself killed .  Which is one of the great lessons of history and also life, if you act out of a paranoid fear of something happening, you will always make that thing happen .  Right, so Robespierre was guillotined in the month of Thermidor in the year two .  Oh, that reminds me of something I forgot to mention, which is that while this famine was going on and France was broke and fighting like nine wars, the Committee of Public Safety decided to change the French calendar .  You know, because the traditional calendar with its 24 hour days and its dating from the birth of Christ was all irrational and religion-y .  They renamed all the months and decided that every day would only have 10 hours and each hour 100 minutes .  That would be an example of enlightenment thinking run amok .  So after the Committee collapsed, France passed a new constitution, and for the next four years, from 1795-1799, France was run by a group of directors, who stole elections and bungled the economy, but didn't cut off 16,000 people's heads, so .  .  .  bonus points for them .   But the French military was actually having a lot of success, largely because in 1793 France instituted the first military draft, which meant they had way more soldiers than anybody else .   And really, the military was the only institution in which people had confidence, which is why, when General Napoleon Bonaparte seized power in 1799, people were initially pretty psyched .   And so it was that after more than 100,000 lives lost, a decade of suffering, a continent-wide war, France went from one supreme ruler to another .  The best quote ever about the French Revolution comes from the former Chinese president Zhou Enlai, who in the 1960s was asked what he thought what the French Revolution's impact had been, and he replied:  " It's too soon to say .  "   And in a way, it still is .  The French Revolution brought to the floor many of the conflicts that continue to define modernity between secularism and religion, between idealism and pragmatism, between oligarchy and democracy .   And to answer the inevitable student question of why do we even have to study this stuff, that would be my first answer .  The past isn't past, it's still shaping the present .   But even more than that, I believe that the study of history is essentially an exercise in empathy .  You have to imagine what it was like to be a peasant in 18th century France, or to be King Louis XVI, or to be Marie Antoinette, or Robespierre .  Lookin' good !  What the study of history forces you to confront is how people who are acting rationally, who think they're acting in their own best interest and in many cases think they're acting in the best interest of their countries, can end up killing so many people, and in many cases killing themselves !  I believe that thinking about those questions makes us better at living our little lives .  Even if it is in a less fancy costume .  In my case, a much less fancy costume .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Monday .  So yesterday I was reading the newspaper- this is a newspaper, Hank, it's like the internet only it doesn't update, it's not interactive, it's printed on very thinly sliced trees, and it's not free .  It's a wonder these guys are having trouble staying in business . So I was reading the newspaper because I am an old person, and I saw a headline that said 'O . K . , You Fix The Budget' !  Then at first I was like 'That's a really good idea, we should turn American Fiscal Policy over to a young adult novelist who is currently wearing his face on his torso . Which reminds me, Hank, at long last the famed pizza shirt is back, it is in stock at DFTBA . com/pizza which means if you order it today it ships tomorrow- at least until we run out .  So Nerdfighters if you like me, mustaches, pizza, and your torso, you should bring those things together; there's a link in the dooblydoo . Right, but so the New York Times wanted me to solve the budget crisis and they created a web-based tool to help me do so  , so you can go on there and click which taxes you want to raise and what spending you want to cut and find a way to balance the budget . So here is the astonishing thing, Hank; if America did everything the Democratic leadership is proposing in the way of raising taxes, we would still have a huge budget deficit .   And if we did everything the Republican leadership is proposing in terms of spending cuts we'd still have a huge deficit .  That's not the astonishing thing .  The astonishing thing is that if we implemented all the Democratic tax increases and all the Republican spending cuts we would still have a huge deficit . Alright, so here is a radical over-simplification of the current federal balance sheet .  As you can see the vast majority of the federal budget goes to social security, Medicare, Medicaid, and the Department of Defense .  That 'other' by the way includes other mandatory spending programs, the biggest chunk of which is unemployment insurance . So, maybe you cut all of Social Security, or all of Medicare, or all of Medicaid, or just eliminate our army . Okay, so putting aside the fact that none of that will ever happen because we're not going to eliminate our army and we're no going to eliminate social security or Medicare because old people vote and old people like that stuff; if we for instance eliminated Medicare we wouldn't actually decrease the federal budget by the amount shown there because old people would still get sick and need care and some of them wouldn't be able to pay for it and we would end up eating the cost somehow . So to those of you who say there is an easy solution, I disagree .  So Hank, I can make an argument as I have in the past that pennies are stupid and they cost us hundreds of millions of dollars a year and we should get rid of them because they're idiotic .  And that's true, but the penny wouldn't actually solve the deficit crisis that we have coming .  So the great thing about this New York Times app, which I encourage you all to check out, is that it makes it clear that it won't be easy .   And I think what most people people will find, and certainly what I found, is that there are things that I would like not to cut that still need to be cut and taxes that I would like not to be raised that still need to be raised . Which is really the case with any budget, like when I draw out my budget, I always find that there are things I would like to do that I can't do, like for instance purchase this dress, instead I have to photo shop myself into it .   And there are things that generate revenue that I don't necessarily want to do them   . Alright Nerdfighters, so the non-rhetorical question of the day; using this app in the dooblydoo, were you able to balance the federal budget and how ? Fortunately Hank, tomorrow I'm leaving for a week in Europe where they have all this stuff figured out .  What's that ?  Really ?  Actually it turns out the deficit projections for most developed economies look a lot like this, so .  .  .  yeah . Hank, I gotta go pack for Europe, I'm doing some events in Amsterdam and Vienna, there's information about that in the dooblydoo and also up in the digabuhr .  But before I go, do I have one really good piece of news; if I've learned anything from my introduction to federal budget deficits, it's that we need more mathematicians in places of power .   And Brotherhood 2 . 0 resident mathematician and future state representative Daniel Biss is now a state representative elect !  YES !  NERDFIGHTERS !  We're goin' to Congress !   .  .  .  State Congress, BUT STILL ! Hank, I'll see you on Wednesday . Uh, okay, post-script, I just had to go buy diapers and wipes at the grocery store, and the guy checking out the diapers was looking at my shirt, and then he looked to me, and he was like  " Is that .  .  .  you ?  "   And I was like,  " Yes .  Yes it is .  "                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Friday .  I got up around 5:30 -     - put this stuff in this bag, and printed out my itinerary .  Willy always knows when I'm leaving .  Marina drove me to the airport -     - which was mostly empty, and I took off for Atlanta .  I read a good book on the way, landed in Atlanta where I had a couple hours to kill .  I always look for interesting places in airports, like this tiny, interfaith chapel, where someone had inked in the direction of Mecca, and Martin Luther King's Nobel Peace Prize, and this portrait of Chewbacca's silhouette straddling the galaxy, and this lady, whose knee is apparently delicious .    And then I got on a plane to Munich and kept glancing into the aisle nervously, hoping that no one would sit next to me, and no one did, so I took a sleeping pill, but it didn't work, and three hours later I found myself delirious in the airplane bathroom with a camcorder .      The flight lasted nine hours, and I never fell asleep, but I did get to see the sun rise from thirty-six thousand feet above the ground, and it occurred to me that until a century ago, no one in all of human history had ever seen that .   Then we landed in foggy Munich, and I had a pretzel .  I was by this time somewhat worse for the wear .       But then I was flying to Amsterdam, the city I love most in the world .  I love its adorable kissing doors, and I love its parachuting Christmas donkeys, its bicyclic abundance, its humorously small trash cans, its gorgeous canals, its apparently modest prairie dogs, its 'vlaams frites,' its uncommonly well-balanced citizenry, and its beautiful old canal houses .   Like all great cities, Amsterdam brims with contradictions .  Maps of the red light district are dominated by a church .  Swans swim up the canal while on the banks of that canal a woman stands half naked in front of a glass door waiting for customers .  Amsterdam is both the city that hid Anne Frank and the city that gave her up .  An ancient city perpetually experiencing new construction .  A city full of boats that separate you from water and contain water .   These same contradictions are in all of us, or, they're in me, at least .   And so I forgot that I'd been awake for thirty hours and kept walking, grateful to be a little boat full of water, still floating .   Hank, I'll see you on Monday .                 
Guten Morgen, Hank, es ist Mittwoch !   I woke up in Munich around 8 am feeling pretty jet-lagged .  Even my yawns have yawns .  Then I went down to the S-Bahn where I was reminded that without warning, death rays from space might throw me onto the track .  Nonetheless, I managed to make it to the airport and then caught a plane to Vienna, wherein the safety card explicitly mentioned two things I could not use on the plane: My phone, and my remote control car .  Then we landed in Vienna, which is locked in a fierce competition with Munich for World's greyest sky .   I took a cab to my hotel room, and then set out to explore the city .  I'd never been to Vienna before, but it's a great city for new visitors, because it's very dense, and there are these huge streets that are for pedestrians only .  The first thing I noticed is that Vienna is packed with Babies .  Baby, Baby, Baby, Baby, Rotating Mozart head, Baby, Baby .  Aaoohh !  Babies !  They made me miss Henry .  Don't tell me they're cherubs !  They're not cherubs !  They're babies, adorable dancing babies !   *glancing over shoulder* Those pigeons are distressingly close to me .  Immediately thereafter, a pigeon crapped on my coat, and because I am smart, I wiped it off with my hand .  Then I kept walking .  I saw Goethe, and a two-headed eagle, and narcissistic graffiti and this building, which happened to feature the world's most awesome bird !  I'm the king of the birds !  Imma fly away now .  Then I went to a park and saw Mozart, and more babies, and space invaders opposed to homophobia and do-not-tread-on-the-green-pressure-pad-or-you-will-be-shot-with-a-laser-and-your-head-will-come-off !  Also, no dogs allowed .  Sexy poses, on the other hand, are encouraged .   I walked for a while longer, until I reached the Albertina museum, where William Kentridge, one of my favorite artists, was on exhibit .  Well, he wasn't on exhibit, but his artwork was .  *text on screen says  " footage redacted due to residual fear of Austrian security guards* Hank, the show was so good that I took out my camcorder to show some of it to you, whereupon my camcorder was immediately confiscated by security .  The next forty minutes of my footage is just this .  *weird noises are heard, and screen is black/dark grey* I don't know what that guy is doing with my camcorder, but it seems unholy .  Well, the important thing is that I got my camera back .   Then I walked over to St .  Stephens Cathedral because I'd heard you could tour the catacombs, and I love me some catacombs .  You weren't allowed to film down there either, but I did get some footage of these urns, which contain the pickled innards of various Habsburgs, including Franz Joseph I, shown here, whose beard clippings, sadly, were not preserved .   But while I can't show you much of what I saw down in the catacombs, I can show you what was happening that day directly above them .  Inside the church, people lit candles and took pictures .  Outside in the square, a balloon man waited for customers, while a huge crowd of people surrounded a b-boy dance crew .  There are more than eleven thousand people buried beneath this square, and when the catacombs got full, prisoners were sent down to stack the bones of the decomposed in order to free up more space .  I got a little footage of one such bone room .  For four hundred years, Vienna buried it's dead down here, but they quit in 1783 because the stench of decomposition had become so overwhelming that people no longer wanted to go to church .  Hearing that made me think about all the ways that the dead haunt us, and it made me wonder how do we best honor the dead ?  By placing them close to our sacred spaces, by marveling at the extraordinary places they've made for us ?  That is not a rhetorical question, by the way .  As I walked alone around Vienna that night, I kept wondering, what if anything, do we owe the dead ?  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning Hank .  It's Monday .  This week we're gonna be learning about the mating habits of -oh come on .  Don't do that in front of the children .  Okay Hank so, tortoises are majestic reptiles .  They can live to be more than 200 years old .    What is that noise ?    Really, that's an actual recording of a tortoise in coitus ?  BLEGHADAS .  Hold on, I gotta call Tommy Lee Jones .  Hi Tommy Lee, it's me John Green .  I'm gonna need that magic wand you used in the film Men in Black 'cause I need to un-remember something .    Oh God, Tommy Lee it's happening again .  So Hank, I present to you the majestic, giant tor-   ahhhh come on !  Alright Hank, so there are a few things you need to understand about tortoises in order to understand their sexuality .  One: Tortoises often don't hit sexual maturity until they're like 20 years old .  Two: An average adult male tortoise weighs 200 pounds more than females .   And number three: tortoises have a lot in common with the male characters on the television phenomenon Jersey Shore .  They don't have jobs, they're huge without being technically overweight, and for both species the primary method of flirting involves head-bobbing .  Okay, so whether the male tortoise is considered hot is decided mostly by the length of his neck .  I mean you know what they say about tortoises with longs necks .  So, the male tortoises will be hanging out and they'll be like  " Look, my neck is so long, "  and the other tortoise will be like  " My neck is even longer, "  and whoever has the longest neck generally gets the most desirable mating situations .  Okay, so you're a long-necked tortoise and you start to approach your lady friend .  Then begins the head-bobbing .  The male tortoise walks up to the female tortoise and bobs his head like crazy in an attempt to, I don't know, look turtle sexy .  At this point one of a few things might happen .  It might be that your lady friend just allows you to mount her .  Now of course a lot of people are wondering about the actual mechanics of tortoise sex .  This is pretty straight forward .  The underside of the male shell, which is called the plastron, is conveniently enough concave .  So the shells actually fit pretty well together .  Yeah, I don't blame you at all from walking away from that, little turtle .  The male tortoise balances like a three-legged stool on his hind feet and his tail and then, you know,   Ah not the noise again .  Hank, you want to know the worst thing about this noise ?  This noise   is the only noise tortoises ever make .  Like, occasionally they'll, like, make hissing sounds but in terms of really utilizing their vocal chords, just this .    So Hank, that's how it goes when everyone is enthusiastic about mating, but sometimes the lady tortoises say  " You know, I don't really want to have someone who weighs 200 pounds more than me hump me .  "  In that situation the male tortoise will walk around to the front of the female and start biting her feet .  He does this because eventually she will retract her feet into her shell thereby rendering her immobile so he can run around and you know .  You stay classy giant tortoise .  Once insemination occurs the female tortoises lay their eggs in a shallow nest and eight months later, baby tortoises !  Who will grow up alone in a terrifying world where this passes for love .  Hank, I can't wait for your song on Wednesday; on Friday we'll be learning about giant squids, not of anger, but of love .  By the way Nerdfighters, both this giant squid of anger shirt designed by Nerdfighter Vondell Swain and this DFTBA shirt, which reminds everyone who looks at your chest not to forget to be awesome, are available now at DFTBA . com, link in the doobly doo .  They're in stock and ship immediately, at least until we run out of them .  Also, please go to projectforawesome . com and sign up for the Project for Awesome mailing list .  The mailing list is one of the main ways we have of organizing so we can descend upon videos about non-profits and bring them to the world .   And yes, I know that my glasses are crooked .  My son is 10 months old .  He is a glasses monster .  Please forgive me .  Hank, I'll see you on Wednesday .  By the way Hank, I'm not gonna lie, learning all of this has dramatically affected my relationship with the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles .  I mean seriously Donatello, I did not expect you to be a biter of lady feet .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Friday, December 3rd .  As you can possibly tell by the lamp shaped like a jellyfish, I'm not in my house .  Instead, Hank, I'm in Miami with its beautiful beaches and its palm trees and its fancy art fairs, none of which I get to enjoy !  Because even though I mentioned earlier that it is December 3rd, I still haven't finished NAFADOYBIMSCOM, National Finish A Draft Of Your Book I Mean Seriously Come On Month !  It's like it's still November !  Ahhhhh !  I'm a giant squid of anger !  Well, Hank I've got to put aside the giant squid of anger in my heart because today we have to talk about giant squids of love .   But even more importantly, I want to discuss with you why I am so fascinated by the sex lives of species different from us .  Okay, Hank, so here is the giant squid: Majestic, very secretive .  We don't know what they eat .  We don't know how deep they're able to dive .  We don't know what they do for fun .   And we don't really know for sure how they mate .   But we've got some ideas, and they involve penile fire-hoses .  Alright, Hank, so most squid have eight arms; two longer tentacles that they use for feeding; and one hectocotylus, which is kind of like a penis except it falls off every time they have sex .  Like, they put it into the girl squid, and then the girl squid kind of breaks it off .  Giant squids don't have a hectocotylus, instead they have a three-foot-long penis, and like a lot of invertebrates they produce spermatophores, which are like these sacks that contain sperm .   But, unfortunately, female giant squid anatomy doesn't really give you a convenient place to put that spermatophore, and that's where the fire-hose comes in .  Hank, in the last 48 hours I've read so much about giant squid sex that I'm surprised the hotel still lets me have internet .   And so, I can tell you that without fail researchers who are hypothesizing about giant squid sex always refer to the male squid penis as a fire-hose .  Because what they think happens is the male squid's penis approaches a female squid's arm and then, like a fire-hose, shoots a spermatophore into the arm .  At which point, the female, as you can imagine, is like  " Oh !  What did you just do to me !  "  Which is actually bad for the males because the females are much larger, and that, biologists think, is why the male squid penis is so long: so they don't have to get too close to the females in order to inseminate them .  Now, Hank, I'm not an expert in the field, but it seems to me that fire-hosing your spermatophore into a lady arm is not a pleasant or even very efficient method of reproduction .   And it makes me wonder: Why ?  Why don't they just find a better way to do it ?   But from an evolutionary perspective, is it ultimately more helpful to have an efficient mating system, or is it more helpful to have, say, an eye that's a foot freakin' wide, which is what giant squids have .  In fact, we see examples over and over in our world - we've been talking about them all week - of incredibly inefficient mating .  Hank, its almost as if sex is not actually the most important thing that animals, including humans, do .   And Hank, I believe that is one thing giant squids are trying to tell us .  I've got to go back to my story, but Hank I will see you on Monday .  Ah !  Nerdfighters, I almost forgot, but because you proved that space pasta is far less efficient than Earth beef, you now get to challenge us to do something difficult and/or horrible .  I should add, however, that a nerdfighter named Stanage did some research suggesting that space pasta might actually be more efficient than Earth beef if we use the space shuttle to pick it up instead of Apollo 11, provided that there was already space pasta on the moon .   But sadly, at least as far as we know, there isn't space pasta on the moon .  At any rate, you figured it out so you get to challenge us .  Leave you suggestions for challenges in the comments and upvote you favorites and as always: DFTBA .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Wednesday and this is the beginning of my zombie apocalypse novella:   " Pre-zombification, my father was already obsessed with corn .  He told me almost every day that corn was in control of us .  Corn wants the world to contain more corn, so corn evolves us to agree with it: Corn tells us that we could make sugar out of corn, or fuel out of corn, or plastic out of corn, etc .  The flu makes us cough, which spreads the flu .  Corn makes us corn-hungry, which spreads corn .  He got this idea from a book, and he never ceased to be amazed by it .  For years, he would talk about it .  We'd be eating mashed potatoes or something, and he'd say,  " You know, potatoes are impossible without corn .  That corn, it's everywhere .  "     I think my dad was so fascinated by this idea because he realized on some fundamental level that he was not in control of his desires: I think he woke up every morning in his nice house with hardwood floors and granite countertops and wondered why he desired granite countertops and hardwood floors, wondered who precisely was running his life .  Most people never stop to wonder why they like Pop Tarts or Rain Flow shower heads or skinny girls or whatever it is they like .  Although my father never abandoned the narrowly circumscribed suburban life he was fated to desire, the why of it all nagged at him .  I inherited that penchant for intellectualism, a character flaw that these days can only be thoroughly eradicated by getting Z'ed up .   Anyway, I have been thinking about the old man because it was a year ago today that I shot him in the chest with a hollow-point  . 45 caliber bullet .  He kind of smiled as he fell backwards onto the overstuffed living room couch .  He took a minute to die, and it was the smilingest minute I'd ever seen from him .  A lot of the Z'ed up smile when you kill them .  I don't know if they're grateful or amused or what, but it helps with the guilt, which quite a lot of people feel .  I knew a kid once who was the kind of sentimentalist who found it troubling to think of himself as a murderer, so he called killing Zs completing them .  I liked that .   That kid--his name was Marcos Marcos--got Z'ed up somehow .  We were living in a very nice heavily chandeliered Lincoln Park townhouse with a few other humanoid types, and then one morning Marcos Marcos made a go at my puppy, Mr .  President, and I had to complete him .  I completed his head all over the dining room credenza of that fancy townhouse and then me and Mr .  President bolted out for the proverbial higher ground .   Newzies go for dogs and cats and cows first, because they've still got enough of a moral compass to recognize that separating human beings from their vital organs--aside from being ethically troubling--is cannibalistic .   It is my own moral compass that has done me in now, working through the last few gallons of the gas that runs the generator that pumps the putrid Z'ed out air down here into my Lincoln Square cellar, eating through the last rusted cans of diced tomatoes and Spam, drinking very expensive red wine at the rate of precisely one bottle per day, watching the shelves empty out, wondering--as my father did--what terrible monster lurking inside of me forces me to go on rowing against the current when I could just walk up a staircase, unlock this cellar door, and get Z'ed up like a normal person .  "   So, Hank, that's the first page of my zombie apocalypse novella which will never be published, not because I dislike zombie apocalypse novellas but because mine is BAD .  That's by far the best page of it, it gets much worse from there .   However, the only copy of my zombie apocalypse novella that will ever exist will be just one of many amazing Project For Awesome raffle prizes .  Speaking of which, Nerdfighters, I hope you're hard at work on your Project For Awesome videos .  If you want to know more about what the Project For Awesome is, look in my pants .     Hank, I don't want to give too much away but on December seventeenth and eighteenth Project For Awesome videos are going to be featured ALL OVER YOUTUBE so Nerdfighters make those Project For Awesome videos awesome .  DFTBA like it says on my shirt, Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank it's Monday .  First I have to correct something about your video from Friday: You said the Project For Awesome begins at midnight on December 17th, in fact it begins at noon Eastern time December 17th .  So upload your videos as close to noon as possible and then tune into youtube . com/p4a .   So Hank today I want to tell you about 8 things I love .   Thing one: this book, Anna and the French Kiss by Stephanie Perkins .  Holy snood do I love this book !  So a couple years ago at LeakyCon a Nerdfighter comes up to me and she says:  " I'm a Nerdfighter and I wrote a book, it's coming out in 2010, can I send you a copy ?  "  and I said,  " Sure "  .  Right so flash forward 2 years, I get this book in the mail and I'm like  " I'll read a page or two, "  and then I can't stop reading it because it is made of sweetness and funny and awesome .  Hank, Anna and the French Kiss is like Maureen Johnson and I had a baby, a French baby .  No, it is nothing like that .   But it is super-funny and smart and one of the most genuinely romantic stories I have ever read .   Second thing I love: Karen Kavett, who designed that .  Karen has been a Nerdfighter forever, she designed the Project for Awesome thumbnail this year, she did all the French Revolution videos, and I'm just so grateful for her .   Thing three: Beckoning Lovely .  Hank, as you know I'm obsessed with my friend Amy Krouse Rosenthal's Beckoning of Lovely project, in which she tries to beckon lovely things into the world .  You can find a link to a video of what happened on 10/10/10 in Chicago in the dooblydoo, and it might make you cry .  It makes me cry, uhh, but I'm a crier .  Hank I don't think you've ever cried in any of our videos, I'd like to see you cry in a video .  I can't, I don't think I've seen you cry since you were a kid .  Probably the last time I saw you cry was when I was punching you .   Thing four: this shirt, which is currently stuck on my glasses, and which was given to me by Nerimon .  Thanks Alex !   Thing five: Charlie .  So Hank I met Charlie McDonnell when he was, to use the language of his native country, but a young lad .   But even back then I remember thinking,  " This kid, aside from being outrageously handsome, is kind of a genius .  "  Ever since, Charlie has been proving me right, but never more than on his new album This is Me, which is honestly, I haven't been able to stop listening to it on iTunes .  It's the only thing in my iTunes .  I have Bread on repeat, and have listened to it .  .  .  621 times .  This raises the alarming possibility that I might technically be a fangirl .  Also, on the back of his CD he wrote,  " I hope you like it "  and then  " Hopeful Charlie "  .  I liked it, Charlie .   Thing six: White dog, white snow .   Thing seven: Hank, I have perhaps saved the best for nearly last .  So a couple weeks ago my friend Joe Felice asked me to participate in The Station is Watching You, a show that works to give new YouTubers a bigger audience .  Joe chose for me a user named Vi Hart, and French the Llama is she amazing !  The crazy part of the story is that Vi Hart has been a Nerdfighter since 2007 and in fact designed the original Nerdfighter pirate logo .  Nerdfighters, click here, watch a Vi Hart video, and your whole life will be changed .  You may think you hate math, but you don't hate Math, you hate the way you've been taught math .  Hank she can also play Jingle Bells with candy buttons, which is a major development in the history of candy buttons .    And lastly Hank, thing eight: the Napoleon .  So Hank this is Napoleon, and lately my son Henry has taken to pointing in the direction he would like to be taken .  Hank, I love the Napoleon because Henry clearly believes that I am a horse .  He's like:  "  And now we shall head that way, horse .  To the candy !  "   So Hank that's stuff I love: Nerdfighters writing books and making music and making videos about math musicianship .  Nerdfighters, please tell me some stuff that you love so I can find new stuff to love, and Hank - don't forget to be awesome . This is the end screen, where we do the end screen stuff .  There's Vi Hart and Charlie, Karen Kavett, the Beckoning of Lovely .  There's a link to get Anna and the French Kiss by nerdfighter Stephanie Perkins in the doobly doo .  Also don't forget to subscribe to youtube . com/P4A, where the magic will begin Friday at noon eastern .                 
Good morning Hank, it is Friday December 17th 2010 .  Time for the Project For Awesome !  Is that too much ?  Felt like a lot !  Think I actually hurt my shoulder .  Today is the day that YouTube is not about kittens who are inspired by kittens but about charity .  You can participate in the Project For Awesome all day, and all day tomorrow by going to youtube . com/p4a or projectforawesome . com .  All day long, a huge army of commenters, including Hank and me, will be running around going to every Project For Awesome video we can find and commenting on it like crazy and rating and favoriting .   And this year, there is added incentive .  Nerdfighters, you may know how much I hate pennies .  Well this year, Hank and I will be donating one penny for every Project For Awesome comment up to one million comments .  This year our pennies will go to benefit 'Save The Children' and 'Partners In Health', two charities that Nerdfighteria has worked with extensively before, which I am going to tell you about in a second .   But first I wanna tell you a story .  So Hank, a few years ago, just after the invasion of Iraq, I was watching the news with my friend Hassan, and they were showing this very nice house that had been bombed, and there was a huge hole in the wall that had been covered over with plywood .   And on that plywood there was all this Arabic graffiti in black spray paint .   And the news guy was talking about the anger on the Arab street and everything and then Hassan starts laughing and I say  " What's so funny ?  "  and he said  " The graffiti "  and I said  " What's funny about it ?  "  He said  " It says 'Happy Birthday Sir despite the circumstances' "  .  Hank, the news man and I had fallen into the same trap .  We both assumed it was political, angry, violent graffiti not  " Happy Birthday Sir, despite the circumstances "  graffiti and ever since I've been thinking about why we fell into that trap .  As humans we have a bad habit of imagining people who live far away from us or are in different circumstances from us, as fundamentally 'Other' .   But in Nerdfighteria we've already learned that people who live in very different circumstances from us are not fundamentally 'Other' .  We know it because we've seen what happens when we work with 'Save The Children' and Shaun's 'Uncultured Project' to build a Pond Sand Filter in Bangladesh that after two years is still providing clean water to all these people .   And we know it because with the help of the 'Harry Potter Alliance' and 'Partners In Health', we were able to fly the SS DFTBA, full of lifesaving supplies to Haiti .  We've already seen what happens when you stop seeing people in poverty as 'Other' and start seeing them as part of 'Us' .  You know 'Us', people who do this to remind themselves to be awesome .  'Us', people who even in the wake of terrible tragedy find a way to happy dance .  We want to keep that awesome going not only because it helps people who live in poverty but also because it helps us .  It reminds us that when we look at graffiti that we don't understand, it very may well say  " Happy Birthday Sir, despite the circumstances "  .  So every Project For Awesome comment, up to a million comments is worth one penny to 'Partners in Health' or 'Save The Children' .   And if you go to projectforawesome . com right now, you'll find lots of amazing ways to donate to great organizations .  We've got raffle prizes from Meekakitty and WheezyWaiter and Nerimon and Ryan Higa and tons of other YouTubers and lots of awesome nerdfighter raffles including the chance to win my nerd glasses and the last remaining BobbleJohn .  Also, everyone who enters my zombie apocalypse novella raffle will be emailed the story, and one lucky winner will receive the actual printed version of the story, extensively annotated by me and signed for the winner .   But in my opinion, the best raffle is the one where if you win, your name will be the name of Hank's new album .  Like if the winner of the raffle's name is Jeff, Hank's new album will be called 'Jeff' .  I'm gonna enter that one like 400 times .  So please go over to projectforawesome . com to donate and join us all day today and tomorrow at youtube . com/p4a to comment and rate and favorite as many awesome P4A videos as possible .  Commenting army, I will see you at youtube . com/p4a all day and night, where Hank and I will be constantly uploading videos Old Spice Guy-style, and may the 4th Project For Awesome be the best one yet .  Nerdfighters, thank you so much for all your P4A videos, thank you for inspiring us .  Hank, DFTBA .  By the way, if you haven't subscribed to youtube . com/p4a, you're not gonna have any fun today !  I made a rhyme !  I am a rapper !    You're my friend .  Is it gonna be weird if we kiss ?  You're so beautiful though !  I want it !  It's wrong .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Wednesday .  I woke up in the Yeti's childhood bedroom around seven, brushed my teeth while contemplating how disconcertingly often I videotape myself brushing my teeth, and went downstairs to find Henry helpfully removing trash from a trash can .  Willy was like,  " I wanna try !  "     We had to drive from Birmingham back to Indianapolis that day, so first I put this stuff in this bag, then I changed clothes - suspiciously similar pants are suspiciously similar - and then I started packing the car .     Hank, there was a time when, in a pinch, I could fit my whole life into a small Sedan .  Now I have to strap a car-top carrier onto my station wagon if I want to go on a five day trip .     Remembering the unbearable lightness of my younger and more vulnerable years made me think about all the road trips I'd gone on in the past .  I'd driven to the Grand Canyon, and Alaska, and San Francisco, and Arthur, Nebraska, home of the world's smallest courthouse .  In those days, I'd get distracted by all kinds of roadside attractions, but this trip was all about speed .  I ate leftover barbecue for breakfast - we didn't stop until lunch .      Willy says,  " I claim this snow for Fireball Wilson Roberts !  "  Henry says,  " Tables are for climbing !  "     I'd been feeling nostalgic, but then I thought about how on those old road trips I couldn't order Happy Meals or play in the play place, which I can finally do again after more than two decades .  Back in the car, Willy slept, and I read Sarah an excerpt from a Germany review of one of my books, as translated by Google .          As we kept driving north, I thought about how all my old road trips had taken me west, partly because that's where the open space is in America and partly because of this amazing line from a book I loved, called  " All The King's Men .  "      " For west is where we all plan to go someday, "  Robert Penn Warren wrote .   " It is where you go when the land gives out and the old field pines encroach .  It is where you go when you get the letter saying 'flee, all is discovered . ' It is where you go when you look down at the blade in your hand and the blood on it .  It is where you go when you are told that you are a bubble on the tide of empire .  "     A bubble on the tide of empire, Hank, french the llama, what I wouldn't give to write sentences like that !  Anyway - then we had to stop for gas and we decided to let Henry drive for a while .  It must be said that despite Henry's abundant charms, he is not terribly attentive behind the wheel .     We kept driving .  I was still thinking about the old road trips and this new one, about becoming a capital  " A "  adult with capital  " R "  responsibilities .  I remember when we got to the world's small courthouse in Arthur, Nebraska, all those years ago after twelve hours of driving, I was struck by the fact that it was not, like, actually /that/ small .  I mean, frankly, if I were so inclined I could easily build a much smaller courthouse in my basement .  As we got back in the car to drive to Carhenge, an exact replica of Stonehenge made out of junked cars, I complained to a fellow traveler, who reminded me that it was not the destination that mattered, but the journey .     Which is true, in its way, but destinations aren't all bad, Hank .   And as we kept driving north, the whole family in the car together, it got darker, and snowier, until finally the road delivered us to the one place that all my youthful trips west never could: home .     Hank, I'll see ya on Friday !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Monday, January 3rd, 2011 .  Happy four year Youtube-versary !  I dressed up cause, you know, it's our special day .      So Hank, in today's video I though I would answer some of Google's auto-correct's common questions beginning with 'is b . ' Okay, let's start from the bottom  " is BearShare safe ?  "  No, but neither are ice pick lobotomies, which we don't use anymore either .   " Is Bob Harper gay ?  "  By the way, Bob Harper is a guy on The Biggest Loser .      Let me answer your question with question, Google .  If we spend as much time thinking about quantum physics as we do thinking about whether celebrities are gay, do you think we'd have a unified theory yet ?  I do !       " Is Bam Margera still married ?  "  Yes, technically although he and his wife live in different cities .   " Is Beyonce pregnant 2010 ?  "  No .   " Is Brett Favre married ?  "  Yes .   " Is Beezid a scam ?  "  No, it's just a rip-off .   " Is Beyonce pregnant ?  "  Still no .   " Is Bronchitis contagious ?  "  Yes .   " Is bleach over ?  "  No and lastly  " is black a color ?  "      Finally an interesting question !  The answer is yes and no .  Functionally, it's a color .  If we mix all the primary colors together we get something that very much resembles black .   But on the other hand, technically, blackness is the absence of light, which is a chromatic .      Then, Hank, I kept typing 'is b' until eventually I typed 'is benj' and after the question of whether Natalie Portman's fiance is Jewish you come to  " is Benjamin  Button real ?  "      Hold on Hank, I have to make a quick journey over to my desk .  Ah headdesk !      Then we have  " is Benjamin Franklin a president ?  "  A question with its present tense and indefinite article implies either that we have more than one president of the United States or that Benjamin Franklin may be a member of the Presidents of the United States of America .  Sadly, neither is the case .  Benjamin Franklin was never the president of the United States and he certainly isn't now .  In fact, it is my sad duty to inform the Googlers of the world that Benjamin Franklin, American hero, patriot, non-president, has died .  Yes, Hank, the good always leave us too soon .   And Benjamin Franklin was a mere 84 years old when he died 221 years ago .      So anyway, Hank, I kept playing around and then eventually I googled 'is bieb ? '  " Is Bieber gay, German for basketball, in jail, bi, a girl, really 51, dead, or going to North Korea ?  "  Also,  " is bieberfever . com free ?  "  Hank, you'll be surprised to learn that the answer to all these questions is either no or ahhhh .      So Hank, welcome to 2011, a year when Google believed we wanted to know whether a pop star was a deceased, imprisoned, fifty-one-year-old, gay, bisexual, female, German basketball on its way to North Korea .  Hank, I think it's safe to say that we did not imagine that world on January 1st, 2007 .      Nerdfighters, thanks for sticking with us all this time we're gonna continue Monday-Wednesday-Friday videos in 2011 but we have heard you that you want more question videos, more Thoughts from Places, and more info-tational videos .   And we are here to grant your wishes as long as your wishes aren't weird .      To that end, I will be doing a question Tuesday video this Friday so please leave questions in the comments .  I will answer as many of them as I can in four minutes .  Hank, DFTBA, I will see you on Friday .  Wednesday, right .  What you think my mental calendar suddenly's going to improve after four years ?      Oh, and by the way still nothing .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Friday .  It's question Friday, the day that I answer real questions from real Nerdfighters .  Let's get right to it . Favorite joke ? Billy was a chemist's son, but Billy is no more .  What he thought was H2O Was H2SO4 .  Hey ! What's your take on the Oxford comma ? Lovely comma-space, unintrusive comma-space, and absolutely necessary . Can you cart wheel ? *attempts cart wheel*No . Who the eff is Hank ? Hank is a city of just over three thousand people in southern South Dakota known for its pheasant season . Do you fit into those wooden shoes in the background ? Kinda . Other than heights, what are you afraid of ? Hmmmm .  .  .  geese, mice, and oblivion . What did you and Hank fight about when you were kids ? We primarily fought about whether I should be able to rewrite the rules of games we were playing while we were playing them in order to ensure my victory .  I felt that this was not only my privilege as an older brother, but also my responsibility, where as Hank was kind of a wuss about it . John, how are you so cool for a nerd ? I don't agree with your premise, and as evidence for my case, I would like to present you with middle school me . Thanks for getting me those glasses mom . How can I find other Nerdfighters at my school ? My recommendation is to acquire or make a DFTBA shirt . What does DFTBA mean anyway ? It means 'Don't Forget To Be Awesome' . What would you name your puppy sized elephant ? I would call him Lewis, and we would be the best of friends . How can I get all these old Nerdfighter jokes if I'm a new Nerdfighter ? If you listen to Hank's music, read my books, watch some old videos, and hang around for a while, you'll get it all eventually . How do you feel about the Kindle ? I don't really care how people read, I care if they read . Is your next book really narrated by a girl ? Yes . Will you ever write another book with David Levithan ? Maybe, but in the mean time you can just read David Levithan's amazing new book that he wrote by himself, The Lover's Dictionary .  Link below .   Favorite Mountain Goats song ? Raskolnikov felt sick, but he couldn't say why when he saw his face reflected in his victims twinkling eye . What Mountain Goats album should I start with ? I forgive you for ending your sentence with a preposition and present you with a recommendation in the dooblydoo .   Will we ever see the Yeti ? I don't know, let me consult my edition of Yeti Researcher volume 24 number 8 .  This thing has ads .  It has a snowmobile ad .  I guess that makes sense .  I mean if you're going to be finding the Yeti you might need a snowmobile .  Yeah, no, I don't think you're ever going to see the Yeti . Would you date a girl more intelligent than yourself ? Yes, in fact I married one . Your headdesk was lame . That's not a question, but thank you for your constructive criticism .  Hold on, I'll try to do better . Ahhhhhhhh .  .  . Headdesk !  *Headdesk, followed by sigh and other noises* Ohhh, excessive headdesk . The rest of today's video will be performed while concussed . Is the world going to end in 2012 ? I excessively headdesked and now I don't remember your question . What is the purpose of a water tower ? I used to know the answer to that; it involves gravity, but then I excessively headdesked and forgot . What's your middle name ? I don't know, is today Tuesday ?  Did I hit my head earlier ? How old are you ? Why am I sitting in front of a video camera ? When will your zombie apocalypse novella be finished ? Hopefully within a week or so, it's terrible and I want to finish it so I can go back to my real book, but I need some zombie killing scenarios .  So if you know of any can you please leave them in the dooblydoo ?   Hank there are a bunch of other questions, but I think I actually gave myself a concussion, so I will see you uhh .  .  .  Man, that, yeah  .  .  . Monday, I will see you on Monday .  
Good morning Hank, it's Wednesday .  I have a zit so big that when I get close to the camcorder, my camcorder believes that my zit is a face .  I mean frankly Hank, this zit is so big that I've begun to wonder whether it's going to develop self consciousness and because of that I've been thinking about conjoined twins .   So Hank, I thought I would one up your top five video from Monday and give you top six pairs of conjoined twins in history, which is actually, not to brag or anything, kind of a top twelve .   Number six, the Biddenden Maids .  Mary and Eliza Chulkhurst were conjoined twins who left five plots of land when they died to benefit the poor of their town Biddenden .   And for the last five hundred years, continuing up to today, every Easter there's lots of stuff for the poor people in this town thanks to Mary and Eliza .  In addition to like bread and cheese and stuff, pensioners and widows also get Biddenden Cakes which are these like massively disgusting biscuits printed with conjoined twins on them .  Like one 19th century historian referred to them as  " not by any means tempting "  .  Anyway Hank, let that be a lesson to you, if you leave your money to charity they will print your face on disgusting biscuits forever but if you leave your money to your brother, he will spend it .   Number five, Giacomo and Giovanni Tocci .  Giacomo and Giovanni were conjoined twins with two heads, four arms and two legs and like a lot of conjoined twins, they spent pretty much their entire childhood on the freak show circuit .  In fact, the Tocci twins spent like five years touring America during which time Mark Twain heard about them, which inspired him to write  " Those Extraordinary Twins "  and also inspired indirectly the great novel  " Pudd'nhead Wilson "  .  So basically without the Tocci twins, Mark Twain is a lesser novelist .  See and people say that the history of conjoined twindom is not interesting .  Stop looking at my zit !   Number four, Lori and George Schappell who are still living and despite sharing 30% of their brain matter, have very different lives .  Lori works part time at a hospital laundry .  George is a professional country singer .  By the way, they are both female - all conjoined twins are identical .  Its like an autonomous region of John Green .   Number three, Jodie and Marie - not their real names .  So in 2000, conjoined twins are born in the United Kingdom - Jodie and Mary .  Jodie was the stronger of the two twins - her heart basically pumped for Mary's blood system .  Mary was a separate person, with a separate brain but she couldn't survive without Jodie .  Doctors determined that both twins would inevitably die unless they were separated but if they were separated Mary would die immediately .  Mary and Jodie's parents didn't want them to be separated but a court ordered the procedure .  As expected, Mary died, Jodie survived and, in fact, is still alive today .   And the case raised all kinds of questions about personhood and medical ethics, a discussion that I'm sure will continue in the comments .   Number two, Chang and Eng, the stars of this great book  " God's Fool "  .  Chang and Eng were the original Siamese twins, they had a crazy life that started in Thailand and took them all around the world .  They eventually brought a tobacco plantation in North Carolina, married sisters and had 21 kids between the two of them .  Like a lot of the non-separated conjoined twins we're talking about, they had a fascinating and very rich life, that in some ways was probably better than it would have been if they had been born singletons .  Which, by the way Hank, is the word for people who aren't conjoined like, you know, us and most people .   This takes me to my favorite conjoined twins of all time, Millie and Christine McKoy, who were known as  " the two-headed Nightingale "  .  Millie and Christine were born into slavery in 1851, sold repeatedly, taken away from their mother, eventually kidnapped by a guy who toured them around the world while beating them .  They were eventually taken back by one of their owners and reunited with their biological mother and the slave owner and his wife taught Millie and Christine how to speak five languages and how to sing in perfect harmony, but also owned them as property and took all their money .   But then when they were 13, the Emancipation Proclamation, freed them and they went on to work sideshows with Barnum and Bailey and made a tonne of money .  Certainly, Millie and Christine were exploited throughout their lives, but its hard to say their lives would be better if they had been separated at birth .   And that's really what fascinates me about conjoined twins .  We're so obsessed with the idea that unusual anatomies need to be made normal, that we forget that unusual anatomies can have many advantages .  That's not to say that conjoinedness is entirely desirable, just that the reality of conjoinedness, like most realities, resists simplicity .   Lastly Nerdfighters, as I'm sure you are aware, there have been devastating floods in Queensland, Australia .  There is a link in the dooblydoo to help people who have been affected by those floods .  Don't Forget To be Awesome .  Hank, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Monday .  I love Brazil !  Did you know that Brazilian Nerdfighters petitioned Brazilian publishers to publish LOOKING FOR ALASKA in Portuguese and it totally worked ?     God, I love Brazil .  Hank, today I want to tell you about Brazil and the United States that I first heard on the amazing podcast  " Planet Money "  -- there's a link to that below --  But I also have to do some errands today so  .  .  .  walk with me .        So, Hank, this tee-shirt -- and yes, I'm wearing my face on my torso -- is made from 100% American cotton, like almost all cotton tee-shirts in the world .  Why ?  Because the United States massively subsidizes its cotton industry .     Alright I've gotta get a water filter for my fridge .  Let's drive .        The U . S .  spends more than three billion dollars a year on its cotton subsidy, which has the effect of making the price of American cotton artificially cheap .  That's a bit of an over-simplification, but in my defense, I'm currently driving on snow .     Right, so these cotton subsidies don't just make American cotton cheap in America, they make American cotton cheap everywhere, which is why the U . S .  is by far the world's largest exporter of cotton .  That's great for the American cotton farmer, but it kinda sucks for all the non-American cotton farmers .  It also sucks for those of us who are Americans who aren't cotton farmers, because all we get for that 3 . 1 billion dollars in taxes is, like, slightly cheaper tee-shirts .        Must resist urge to eat cheeseburgers !        So, Hank, under international trade agreements, some agricultural subsidies are legal, but you're not allowed to artificially lower the price of something; and in 2002 Brazil filed a case with the W . T . O .  saying basically, when it comes to cotton,        Americans are a bunch of cheating cheaters of cheatery .         And their illegal cotton subsidies have made it completely impossible for Brazilian farmers to compete, even to sell cotton IN BRAZIL, because American cotton is so artificially cheap .     In 2004 the W . T . O .  sides with Brazil, says American cotton farming subsidies are completely illegal .  Whereupon the United States says,  " We're rubber, you're glue; W . T . O .  rulings bounce off us and stick to you .  "        Holy snood !  Adulthood is expensive .        We completely refuse to comply, just keep appealing, and appealing, and finally in 2008 we lose our last appeal, whereupon we're like,  " Ya know what ?  Nah, we're not gonna comply .  "        Which we can totally do because it turns out there's no actual penalty for failing to follow trade agreements .  We gotta go to the grocery store .        So after the U . S .  failed to abide by the W . T . O . 's decision that U . S .  cotton subsidies were illegal, Brazil's only real recourse was retaliation .         But if you're a small economy in a fight with a huge economy, your retaliation options are a little limited .  Like, if Liberia doesn't like American cotton subsidies, they can say,  " You know what ?  We're gonna tax all American imports to Liberia .  "      And then America will be like,  "  .  .  .  Okay .  "         And that's probably how this fight with Brazil would have ended ten years ago, but what happened in the meantime is that Brazil became a BIG economy .  Nowhere near the size of the U . S . , certainly, but big .        Which is why, when Brazil threatened to tax American imports like pharmaceuticals and cosmetics, those companies called their friends in the American government and said,  " Ya gotta do something about this cotton business !  "         And they did come to an agreement !  In April of 2010 the United States announced that it would pay Brazilian cotton farmers 147 million dollars a year in order to continue subsidizing our own cotton farmers illegally, to the tune of three billion dollars a year .      And that, Hank, is how the United States came to subsidize the Brazilian cotton industry .  If we were gonna be fair, we should subsidize every cotton industry in the developing world, but Brazil was the only country that was smart enough to sue us and big enough to scare us .  Like I said earlier, I love Brazil .   But I don't want to send their cotton farmers 147 million dollars each year .      Hank, I'll see you on Wednesday .     By the way, Nerdfighters, the American taxpayer has already paid for a significant portion of this tee-shirt .  If you'd like to pay for the rest of it, you can do so at dftba . com/pizza It's in stock, ships immediately, and thanks to bad economic policy-making, it's only $18 .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Friday, January 21, 2011 .  I want to continue our discussion about how the truth resists simplicity by talking about narrative complexity, but in order to do that I need to talk about my favorite person: ME !  Okay, Hank .  So the biggest award in young adult literature is called the Printz Award, which looks like this   on a book, and looks like this   in a basement .   And the single most important moment in my whole professional life happened five years ago, almost to the day, when I received the call saying that Looking for Alaska, my first novel, had won the Printz Award .   And it was especially meaningful to me because my first job after college was as a temp at the magazine, Booklist .   And on my first day at Booklist, I had to retype, that's how old I am, all these speeches that were given at the first Printz Award reception .   And that is the good narrative, right ?  You start out with this twenty-two year old professional data entrist who writes a novel for years and years at night and on the weekends, and then eventually it comes out and he wins the very award that he used to type the speeches for .   And you can imagine this young writer working in isolation and getting rejected over and over and over again until a publisher takes a chance on him .   But Hank, the actual story of how this book came to exist and have this shiny piece of gold on it is different and more complicated so I thought I would try to tell that story today . So I did write this story at night and on the weekends for three years, but I had constant help from my friend, Ilene Cooper, who was one of my bosses at Booklist and who's also an author .  Ilene probably read and commented on like a dozen drafts of Looking for Alaska--which by the way, wasn't even called Looking for Alaska until my friend, Keir Graff came up with that title .  Then, once Ilene was happy and I paid Keir his two dollars for coming up with the title, Ilene and I sent it to Penguin and they agreed to publish it, provided I revised extensively .  Although, I had no idea about how extensively I would have to revise it . So this book, for those of you who haven't read it, is about a guy who memorizes the last words of famous people, and falls in love with a girl named Alaska .  Only, when Penguin agreed to buy the book, it wasn't about a guy who memorizes the last words of famous people .  In fact, a lot of what people like about the book, from the  " Great Perhaps "  to the labyrinth, came out in those revisions after I'd sold the book to Penguin .  So Hank, about four years after I started, I had a reasonably finished manuscript .  Although, it would be wrong to say that I wrote that book .  The truth is that Ilene wrote parts of it, and my editor, Julie Strauss-Gabel wrote parts of it, and my wife wrote parts of it .  In fact, all these people   wrote at least a little bit of Looking for Alaska .   And I am grateful to each and every one of those people, although no, they cannot have any of my royalties . We all like this idea that a book is created by a single person for a single reader because it's a narrative that makes sense, but the truth resists that simplicity .  As the great Carl Sagan said,  " If you wish to make an apple pie from scratch, you must first invent the universe .  " So all these people worked to make a book .  It came out .  Twelve people in a room decided this award  , and I was really happy .   And then a little part of me was like, so what ?  What I eventually realized is that the real business of books is not done by awards committees, or people who turn trees into paper, or editors, or agents, or even writers--we're all just facilitators .  The real business is done by readers and the Looking for Alaska that you read is not quite like the Looking for Alaska that anyone else reads .  The hundreds of thousands of Looking for Alaska readers' stories are not something I can hold in my hand or even get my head around .  But Hank, I do want to say to you and all the Nerdfighters who've read my books, that being able to participate in big, interesting conversations with you through stories like this one   and my other books is really the most fulfilling thing about my life .  Just kidding !  It's Henry and Sarah !   But you guys are great too .  Seriously, if I didn't have such a cute kid and a great wife, you would be at the top .  Well, pizza .  It goes Sarah and Henry, pizza, the rest of my family, Nerdfighteria, The Mountain Goats--that's my top five .  Hank !  I am Freedom in Panem, and I will see you on Friday   .  It is Friday !  I'm so bad at that !                   
Good morning Hank, it's Wednesday .  On Monday you explained to us that Warner Chilcott, the pharmaceutical company that makes Asacol HD, the drug that keeps you alive and well enough to work, had unexpectedly and without warning overnight raised the price of that drug by more than 1200% .  So you asked us to email the CEO of Warner Chilcott, Roger Boissonneault, which I did to say, you know,  " Roger Boissonneault, you are doing a fantastic job .  " In fact Hank, hold on the markets just opened .  Hank, I've just acquired 100 shares of Warner Chilcott stock making me one 2 millionth the owner of the company that's ruining your life .  You know why they're ruining your life ?  Because Roger Boissonneault doesn't work for you or the other people who have ulcerative colitis, Hank .  He works for me ! Hank, if you go to Warner Chilcott's webpage you know what's above the drugs and above the company news and above the woman who is delighted to have inexplicably found herself in a field of flowers ?  The stock price .  In fact Hank, Warner Chilcott's website is not located at warnerchilcott . com, it's located at wcrx . com, which is Warner Chilcott's stock symbol . Hank, as you know I am a capitalist .  I believe in free and open markets .  I believe when you let suppliers and demanders figure out the price for something you get better, cheaper goods and services .   But, I don't believe in unregulated free markets because that would be insane .  For instance, I don't believe that Wal-Mart should be allowed to sell highly enriched uranium .  The free market is really good at things like figuring out how much air fare should cost and fueling the innovation that makes it possible to make telephone calls without wires .  But Hank, there are some things that markets can't do, and the pharmaceutical industry is a great example of this .  So Hank, if I were to ask you whether you would rather have a single pill that cures malaria or a single pill that cures male pattern baldness, you'd probably say, you know, the malaria pill .  Right, because aside from the humanitarian argument, malaria is possibly the single biggest suck on world economic productivity-- aside from perhaps Call of Duty .   And if we could cure malaria there would be millions of new people who could work instead of being sick themselves or taking care of sick kids, which would be a huge boom for the world economy .  Unfortunately, the free market can't see that because all it can see is  " Oh my God, if we cured baldness we would be so rich !  " So when pharmaceutical companies say that their profits go back into research and development they're telling the truth, but they're researching and developing lucrative drugs, not drugs that maximize the benefit to the overall health of the world .  Hank, the truth is Roger Boissonneault is not in the business of providing you with Asacol, he's in the business of providing me with a return on my investment .  So why did Warner Chilcott offer you their drug for 50 dollars a month and then raise the price to 620 dollars a month ?  Same reason crack dealers give out the first rock free and musicians release free downloads .  First, you maximize the number of customers, then you maximize the profit . Hank, the great thing about drugs like Asacol HD, I mean from the perspective of a part owner of Warner Chilcott, is that if you don't find some kind of gastrointestinal anti-inflammatory, you might die .   And that makes you a super-motivated customer .  Hank, you can't negotiate fairly with Warner Chilcott because Warner Chilcott knows how badly you wanna stay alive .  That's why Asacol is, for instance, much less expensive in Canada where Warner Chilcott isn't negotiating with individuals, they're negotiating with the entire population of Canada . Hank, the free market that works so well in so many fields fails miserably at providing efficient, inexpensive, and effective healthcare .  As evidence I point to the fact that the rational response to learning that Warner Chilcott has Warner Chilcotted you and other people with ulcerative colitis is to purchase Warner Chilcott stock .  That is insane !  To me that is a strong indication that the market is not currently incentivizing good health . Hank, the real reason the United States needs universal health insurance with good prescription drug coverage is not ultimately because it's the right thing to do, but because a healthier work force that spends its capital not on Asacol but on innovation and finding efficiencies in various industries will benefit the American economy .   And Hank, I speak as an owner of the company when I say that if Warner Chilcott can't compete, if they can't deliver real drugs that help real people at a fairly negotiated price, than it can go Warner Chilcott itself .  Hank I'll see you on Friday .                 
Nerdfighters in Pittsburgh: GOOD MORNING, HANK .  IT'S MONDAY ! So Hank, that's a lot of Nerdfighters, and this is Hosni Mubarak .  That's called a transition, Hank .  It's a skill of professional writers . Hank, Mubarak may or may not be a Nerdfighter .  Although, I suspect he isn't because he doesn't seem to love the Internet,  But he is the 82-year-old dictator of Egypt .   And as you may of hear on the news, his 30-year rule is in peril, and lots of Nerdfighters have asked me to make a video of Egypt, so I'm gonna . Okay, so Egypt is a Northern African nation of 80 million people .  Primary language: Arabic .  90% Muslim .  10% Christian .  It used to be kind center the of the world, then it was part of a bunch of Empires .  Let's just skip ahead to 1979 . Okay, so it's 1979, and the president of Egypt, Anwar al-Sadat, signs a peace treaty with Israel, thereby establishing Egypt, at least in the mind of the west, as a kind of politically and militaristically moderate Arab state . Two years later, in 1981, Anwar al-Sadat is assassinated by Islamists .  His vice president, Hosni Mubarak, gets shot in the hand but survives .  So congratulations Hosni, you get to be president of Egypt ! That was the first time he survived an assassination attempt .  Mubarak has since survived five more assassination attempts, which is the kind of thing that could make you super super paranoid and, in fact, has made him super super paranoid . Anyway, despite the considerable dangers of the gig, Hosni Mubarak seems to really like being president of Egypt because his three main political positions are:Number 1: I, Hosni Mubarak, should be the president of Egypt . Number 2: There should be no freedom of press and no Islamic political parties, in fact, no political parties at all, really because I, Hosni Mubarak, should remain the president of Egypt .  And number 3: People who disagree with number 1 or number 2 should go to jail . In fact, Hank, even before all these protests started in the last week, there were more than 10,000 political prisoners in jail in Egypt, which is a lot but like a drop in the bucket compared to China, and we're not exactly fomenting revolution in China right now, unless you define fomenting as purchasing and revolution as iPods . So everybody's always been kinda friends with him, both in the Arab world and in the West .  Everybody's like,  " Ah !  It's Mubarak .  He could be worse .  "  But then in beginning of 2011, Egypt's neighbor Tunisia suddenly and unexpectedly got rid of their dictator .   And after seeing what happened in Tunisia, people in Egypt were like  " Hey !  I'm pissed off too !  I'm pissed off about not having freedom of speech and about the secret police and about rising food prices .  "  Remember the French Revolution, Hank ?  Rising food prices !  I'm telling you Hank, if you ever become a dictator, keep your eye on the price of food . So on January 25, 2011, people hit the streets .  Now initially, the police, which are often seen as a force of terror in Egypt, were attacking protesters and throwing them in jail and torturing them, and then Mubarak resorts to all the typical old-fashioned dictator stuff, like turning off all the phones and turning off the internet, and none of it really worked .  So finally, Mubarak played his last card .  He sent the army out onto the streets of Cairo, which totally backfired . It backfired because all male Egyptians have to serve some time in the army, so the army is seen as an extension of the citizenry .   And that's why you see all these protesters climbing on top of tanks, and shaking hands with the guys inside the tanks, and, like, scrawling anti-Mubarak graffiti on Mubarak's tanks .   And it looks like Mubarak is going to have to make his graceful exit, and that is when the hard work will begin .  There's a lot of romance in revolution, Hank .  We all know this, right ? I can't help myself .  I love a good revolution .  I love men and women standing up to authority, risking their lives for their country .   But that's exactly what happened in the French Revolution, which ended up being a  " massiva disastro "  .  That's not French .  In fact Hank, it must be noted that revolution does not have a particularly good track record . So Hank, right now, the story of Egypt's political situation is really shiny and interesting, that's why we're all paying attention to it .   And in a few months it won't be so shiny .  There will be something new shinny, hopefully the invention of puppy-sized elephants .   And I will name him Louis and teach him to poop outside, and he and Willy will play together in the snow, and it will be so beau .  .  .  Were we talking about something ?  Egypt, right . So hopefully Egypt will make the difficult transition to a real democracy, and the way that we can support that is to continue to pay attention to their story, even when it's not so shiny anymore . Okay, so thank you for listening to me talk about Egypt .  As a reward, I will do a question Tuesday on Friday .  Please leave your questions and comments .  Baby's crying, so I gotta go .  Hank, I'll see you on Wednesday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Friday, it's question Friday, the day that I answer real questions from real nerdfighters . Are there any words you still can't spell ? I occasionally struggle with occasionally .  Also refrigerator, where is your  " D " , refrigerator ?   Did you see that NASA tweeted Hank's video ? Yes I did !  Hank, I'm glad you're not quite as obsessed with space as you were when you were 16, because that might have made your brain explode .   Wait, in Hank's video, he said that telescope can see into the past .  How can you see into the past ? Okay, so light travels at a speed, so if something is 13 billion light-years away, what we see when we look at it happened 13 billion years ago because that's how long it took the light to get to us .  Similarly, our sun is like 8 light-minutes away from us so we have no idea what is currently happening on the sun .  All of our sun-related news is at least 8 minutes old .  Which is why the sun needs a twitter, Hank .  That wouldn't work ?  Bummer .   Which part of Will Grayson, Will Grayson did you write ? Uppercase Will AKA straight Will AKA Schrodinger's Will .   Hey do y'all fill up power steering fluid ? Sorry that was my question for Jiffy Lube .   Who the eff is Hank ? Hank is a comic book superhero from the DC Universe who first appeared in 1939 .  Hank is also known as  " The Caped Crusader "  and  " The Hank .  "   Where should I invest a small amount of money ? I recommend a broad index fund like the Wilshire 5000 .   If you could live in any period of history, which would it be ? This one .  Why would anyone wanna live in a period other than this one ?  Like, I acknowledge that Rome was fantastic and everything but a nerd with 4 days on his hand can recreate Rome in its entirety in Minecraft .   What are those blue creatures behind you ? There are blue creatures behind me ?  Do they look menacing ?  You can't answer .  You're inside the internet .  I'm just gonna have to turn around and face the music .  Oh those guys ?  !  These were sewn for me by a nerdfighter .  Possibly they were supposed to be a present for Henry, but anyway I took them .   Peeta or Gale ? I am with the bakers !   Do you use hair product ? No .  The puff needs hair product like Hank needs caffeine .   What's your overall stance on the Israeli/Palestinian conflict ? My overall stance is that both sides need to recognize the legitimacy of the other's narrative .   Will your zombie novella ever be published ?  It was released under a creative commons license so it is freely available all over the internet -- link in the dooblydoo .  However, before you download it, you are ethically obligated to leave a comment thanking all the people who donated because without them, this terrible zombie novella would not exist .  Also, you have to promise to read one of my actual books -- link in the dooblydoo -- so you don't believe that I'm as bad a writer as my zombie novella would indicate .   Why do we have eyelids ? I don't know; blinking is for COWARDS .   When you and Hank play clue, who is Mr .  Green ? So Hank in the original British Cluedo, Mr .  Green is called Reverend Green but when they brought it to America they felt like that was sacrilege -- sacrilege, by the way, is another word I have trouble spelling .  So they renamed him Mr .  Green, but anyway I'm usually Colonel Mustard .   What English word retains its pronunciation even after you take away 4 of its 5 letters ? Queue .  Another word I have trouble spelling .  This is like the John Green Spelling Bee Nightmare Edition of Question Friday .   What's your bracelet ? It's an Esther bracelet !  You don't have an Esther bracelet ?  You should get one, they make the world suck less !  Link in the dooblydoo .   Why was Henry crying at the end of your last video ? That is not a question that was asked by a parent .  There is no  " why .  "  Like pretty much the only two thoughts babies ever have are  " I am ecstatically happy, "  and  " this could be better .  "   And they really only have one strategy to take things from  " this could be better "  to  " I am ecstatically happy, "  which is crying .   Why is a bubble round ? Because they're minimal surface structures, and spheres have minimal surface .   How's your Warner Chilcott stock doing ? Thank you for asking, I'm down $32 .  Warner Chilcott, you need to do a better job of Warner Chilcott-ing sick people or else I'm never gonna get my money back .   Can I be your last question ? Almost .   Will you see Hank on Monday ? YES !   By the way, Hank, if you want an awesome gold eagle shirt from our friend the Whomping Willow, link in the dooblydoo .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Wednesday .  So I just watched a video by Nerdfighter suchducks in which she claims that we don't make as many inside jokes as we used to .     I don't know what to do about that, Hank, except maybe to reveal, for the second time in human history, the pizza john mustache .     That's right, Hank, the pizza john mustache is like herpes and the Transformers franchise, you can never be quite sure that it's gone away for good .      But, Hank I suspect that even this is not enough to satisfy suchducks so I shall wear my pizza mustache while eating pizza and playing the Sing-a-ma-jig .      And then I'll go for a walk with my puppy-sized elephant and the dread pirate Fireball Wilson Roberts and French the Llama while wearing a book called Tender Morsels in your pants on my head .      " You didn't do the hand thing .  "   " What ?  "  :The hand thing, you didn't do the hand thing .     I've been doing it the entire time with my right hand, go back and watch .  So, Hank it should- Sorry, I'm having a really hard time taking myself seriously right now, uhh, I feel like I look like both a cop and a creeper, Hank, so, like, I feel like I should be arresting myself for creeping in the first degree .     Right .   But anyway Hank, as I'm sure you're aware there's been a lot of conversation on Tumblr and the Ning and YouTube and Twitter about Nerdfighteria changing as it grows and how to keep the community strong as it grows and etc and I just thought I would throw in my two cents .      But first I want to establish two rules .  Not just for Nerdfighteria but also for, like, general human existence .  Uhh, number one: don't be mean and number two: DFTBA .  Hank, I know those rules are hard to follow but they are the rules !   And if you break them the half of my moustache that is a cop will arrest you and the half of my moustache that is a creeper will get creepy .     I can't look at myself in the viewfinder, Hank .  I can't take myself seriously .  I have got to get rid of this mouth caterpillar .  Ahh, so much better .  Alright, Hank, first I want to remind everybody that Nerdfighteria has accomplished a ton in the last few months .     We've raised more than $10,000 with Esther for This Star Won't Go Out .  The Project for Awesome generated more than 600,000 comments and raised more than $150,000 .  We've broken the email inbox of Warner Chilcott CEO, determined that moon pasta is more efficient than earth beef, transcribed every single vlogbrothers video at nerdfighteria . info, and nerdfighters continue to do amazing things all over the world from dressing up as Phineas Gage for Halloween to drawing regular squids of rational debate and source citation to attending anything but clothes parties while my face stares at you creepily from the closet .     That said Hank, Nerdfighteria definitely needs better ways to interact .  Like, YouTube comments are awesome but they don't really lend themselves to building relationships or making stuff collaboratively .  The Ning is also awesome, but can be very confusing, particularly to new users; and Hank, Ning Masters are working on that, but in the meantime some Nerdfighters are building Your Pants .  Hank, I'm sure you remember that the original Brotherhood 2 . 0 forum was called  " My Pants " , well this is going to be like  " My Pants "  except  " Yours "  .     So hopefully in the next week or so  " Your Pants "  will be live .  It's going to be a great place to build friendships and decrease world suck and make Nerdfightastic things .     So keep watching, it'll be at yourpants . org not yourpants . com .  If you go to yourpants . com Google will tell you that they can't find your pants .  Which, I mean, I don't expect you to be able to find my pants Google, that's my job .  Google, your job is when I input a symptom, you tell me what terrible disease I probably have .     Alright Hank, here's the last thing I want to say about Nerdfighting and civility .  No one can tell you if you're a Nerdfighter and you can't tell anyone else if they're a Nerdfighter .  Nerdfighter is an identity that you choose and then we collectively define that identity .  Not by talking about what it means, but by living it .   And in my opinion that goes for almost all identities, from the ones we choose like musician or writer, to the ones that seem unchosen like brother .     Identities are important, but both the ones you choose and the ones that choose you generally resist simple definitions .  I mean Hank, if I've learned anything about brotherhood in the last 4 years, it's that brotherhood is about a hell of a lot more than sharing the same parental units .     Hank, I'll see you on Friday .   And Nerdfighters, starting next week, I'll see you in Your Pants .     Sorry, I had to bring the mustache back for that one .  Movie magic !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Monday, February 14th, 2011 .  I recently saw a YouTuber I like a lot named 'idointernet' play a game called 'Chubby Bunny' .     Hank, the rules are you just eat marshmallows and say 'Chubby Bunny', it's pretty easy, watch me .    Chubby bunny .  .  .  chubby bunny .  .  .  This is almost too easy .  Chubby bunny .  .  .  chubby bunny .  .  .   This just got much harder .  .  .  chubby bunny .  .  .  this one is going to be quite a challenge Hank .  .  .  chubby .  .  .  Wait a second .  Did I say it's February 14th, 2011 ?  Is this Valentine's Day ?       It's Valentine's Day, isn't it, Hank ?   .  .  . CRAP !     OK Hank I have to go to the mall, walk with me .  OK, so three things I hate about Valentine's Day .  Number one: all gift giving is economically inefficient, but Valentine's Day is the worst, because you almost always give people stuff they wouldn't choose to own themselves, like candy hearts or the necklace that my wife colloquially refers to as 'Boobs and  Butt' .     Actually, I should probably just get her that necklace .  Instead, I am buying her shampoo .  Good Lord, Hank, I've purchased cars that cost less than that shampoo .     Secondly, Valentine's Day is perhaps the most potent symbol of our weird obsession with romantic love .  Like why isn't 'Best Friends Day' the biggest shopping day of the year ?  Because for some reason, we think you can only have loving, sustained relationships with someone who you also sleep with .     If you spend your life singularly obsessed with romantic love, you're gonna miss out on a lot of what's fun about being a person,  .  .  . also you're gonna have to spend a lot of money on diamonds .      Lastly, I like holidays that celebrate service or sacrifice, historical figures who embodied our values .   But I don't really see a point of a holiday that celebrates romantic love, I mean if you need to be reminded to like your romantic partner, you're doing it wrong .     Hank, so far as I can tell the only good thing about Valentine's Day is that gift-giving, while it is economically inefficient, is also kind of an act of empathy .  Right ?  You have to imagine what it's like to be someone else, imagine what they would want, and then get it for them .       But if I'm really being empathetic, Hank, I'll recognize that what the Yeti wants most of all for Valentine's Day is not hastily purchased toiletries but for me to have this video finished and uploaded by the time she gets home from work .  So I'm going to get on that .     Hank, by the way, great job with Your Pants !   .  .  . is a sentence I never thought I'd say .  I'll see you on Wednesday .     P . S .  Hank Green, noted American vlogbrother, just did a very funny Valentine's Day Truth or Fail .  Click anywhere on the screen to go to that !  Click now; you're not missing anything .  Best wishes .                 
Good morning, Hank; it's Friday .  I got up around 8:00, went downstairs to pick up the camera, and then the Yeti and I drove east, past the kind of endless corn fields that could make one wonder whether corn monoculture might one day lead to a zombie apocalypse, and then we arrived in Knightstown, Indiana .  We were there to help two Swedish architects purchase a tree, which I realize sounds like code for a drug deal or high-stakes international diplomacy, but .  .  .  yeah, that's the fascinating life of the museum curator's husband .     Anyway, I got bored after a while and decided to walk across the street to the huge Knightstown cemetery .  I love cemeteries; for one thing, they contain a lot of names, which is very helpful for a writer .  Hannah J .  Leisure; and Fred and Blonda Stickler; and Minnie Hooker; and Mary McFall; and Ephraim Confare; and Walter Manlove; and Waitsell Cary, the founder of Knightstown .  I also love cemeteries because they contain so many stories you get to imagine: The union dead, the first marriage of Knightstown .      And the more you look, the more narratives you find coming out of tombstones .  There are the straightforward ones like the sadness of losing a child, the amazingness of being married for 61 years; but also the complicated ones like .  .  .  wait, who was the dude in that 61-year marriage ?  Valva or Mona ?  Were they Knightstown's first single-sex marriage ?  Probably not, but I hope so !   And while we're on the topic of stories that get weirder the more you think about them, what's the deal with Walter Manlove's wife ?     Knightstown is a small place, and like a lot of towns in the Midwest, it's shrinking .  I drove over to the downtown, with its '57 Chevys and old-fashioned ice cream joints and ducks wearing headscarves, Red's Hot Tanning and a closed bookstore and a place called  " Bittersweet Memories, "  where I bought this for Henry's room because it seems to me like literally the best advice you can give a child .  .  .  and also an adult .     It's easy to feel nostalgic in Knightstown, with its paint-chipped gazebo and I-don't-believe-in-ghosts-but-that-mansion-is-definitely-haunted mansions -- but Knightstown has a present and a future as well as its past, which is something that people tend to forget about small towns in America .  Someday, that little girl will decide if she wants to be part of this town's future, or if she wants to indulge in the great American pastime of lighting out for the territories .   But we don't yet know what she'll decide, or what it'll mean for Knightstown .     Thinking about that made me think about Walter Manlove's wife, Gussie .  She was 28 when her husband died, and I could imagine her picking out that headstone, committing right then and there to being buried next to her husband .   But she didn't yet know her future, Hank .  Maybe she survived to 113 and outlived the century she'd committed herself to .  Maybe she forgot to pay for the plot next to him .  Or, more likely, maybe she had a life that the 28-year-old widow couldn't have imagined .  Maybe she married someone else and built a life, and although haunted by her unkept promise, chose to be buried with her new spouse .     Hank, I think that's why, in the end, all we can really do is be kind to each other .  We don't know what's ahead - for us, or for our places .  After all, Hank, nothing is etched in stone .  .  .  well, until it is .     I'll see you on Monday .                 
Good morning, Hank; it's Wednesday .  Today, I'm going to try to re-carbon-neutralize the vlogbrothers, but first three notes .  .  .     Number One: I loved your interview with the mayor of Missoula; I wish that he could be my mayor without me having to move to Missoula .     Number Two: Hank, it was a year ago today that our friend and Ningmaster, Tom, almost died in a bicycle accident, and was in a coma forever, but then he didn't die, and now he's here, and yay !      And Number Three, Hank: I should probably button this button .  We're running a video blog here, not a porn studio .     Okay, Hank, so in October of 2007, I carbon-neutralized Nerdfighteria at a cost of, like, 30 bucks .  So I figured I'd do it again even though we now have slightly more views .  By the way, if you don't believe that carbon dioxide emissions contribute to climate change, that's .  .  .  fine .     Okay, so vlogbrothers videos have been viewed about 122 million times; the average video length is around 3 minutes and 30 seconds .  Of course, lots of people don't watch the entire video .  .  .  I mean, particularly the giraffe sex videos; they get there and they're like,  " Where's the giraffe sex ?  There's no giraffe sex !  It's just a guy; he's talking .  He's not very funny; he's got funny hair .  I hate this guy !  Click !  "      But then again, Nerdfighteria does a lot of things other than watch videos like create profiles on the Ning, and post in Your Pants, and post YouTube comments .  .  .  so let's just take a wild guess and say that it averages out to 3 minutes and 30 seconds, because that's a good number for calculation and I'm pretty bad at math, so I need help .     Okay, so 122 million times 3 . 5 is .  .  .  really ?  427 million minutes ?     Now, Hank, because I've seen the musical  " Rent, "  I know there are 525,600 minutes in a year, which means that Nerdfighteria is more than 812 years old !     By the way, Hank, speaking of the amazing things Nerdfighteria can do because it's 812 years old: Did you know that there are nerdfighters in Your Pants currently trying to figure out the mystery of Gussie Manlove, Walter Manlove's wife ?  Link in the dooblydoo .     So, Hank, we're talking about a total of about 7,116,667 hours .  It takes an average of 120 watts per hour for computers to browse the Internet, so you multiply that big number times 120, and you get .  .  .  854 million, zero thousand, forty watts .  Did I say that number right ?  God, I'm bad at math .     Which is 854,000 . 04 kilowatts, but I'm going to eliminate that  " zero-four, "  Hank, because it makes the math hard .     On average, in the US, it takes about 1 . 35 pounds of carbon to create a kilowatt of energy, ergo .  .  .  Nerdfighteria is responsible for 1,152,900 pounds of carbon, which means, Hank, that Nerdfighteria, in four years, has created more carbon emissions than the average Swede will in his or her lifetime .     That's right, Hank .  Nerdfighteria is already .  .  .  a Swede .      And let me remind you, Hank, Nerdfighteria is not even a person; it's an idea .     On the upside, Hank, I already got rid of 23,000 pounds of our carbon emissions in 2007, which means that now we only have 1 . 13 million pounds of carbon to offset .  It would take just over $5,000 to offset our carbon emissions at carbonfund . org, but I'm not going to do that, Hank, uh, because someday, Henry is gonna want to go to college .      But, Hank, when you think about the fact that Nerdfighteria is responsible for one million pounds of carbon emissions and the vast majority of people have never even heard the word  " Nerdfighteria, "  it begins to give you a sense of how huge the problem we're facing really is .  I mean, if you think about YouTube's carbon emissions, you're talking about trillions of pounds of carbon .     I still think YouTube is awesome; I certainly think Nerdfighteria is awesome, but Hank, we need to be aware of the price of that awesome .  I'll see you on Friday .     Nerdfighters from Bahrain to New Zealand to Libya to Morocco are experiencing mega-worldsuck for a lot of different reasons .   And so, Nerdfighteria, I just want to encourage you, first, to pay attention, and second, to help where you can .  There are some links in the dooblydoo .                 
Good morning, Hank; it's Monday .  I'm at Bill and Ilene's house .  Bill and Ilene were my first bosses, or at least some of my first bosses at Booklist magazine .  Ilene Cooper is the reason, of course, that I am an author .  She is an author herself of books like Sam I Am and The Golden Rule .  This is the Korean edition, because Eileen doesn't have an English edition, but anyway this book is dedicated to me .  I would show you but the dedication is in - is in - is in Korean . So Hank your video on Friday was amazing and I still can't get over the fact that nerdfighters found Gussie Manlove even though she wasn't named Gussie Manlove when she died--she was named Audrey Brown, and she wasn't named Gussie Manlove when she was born--she was named Gussie Horsey, which is the worst name ever ! Or at least I thought it was the worst name ever until I started doing research on the topic . So today, Hank, I present to you my list of six unfortunate names from history . Number six: Dick Trickle .  Hank, when it comes to Dicks you have a lot of unfortunate name choices like Dick Sweat, the former congressman, or Dick Army .  But to my mind the best at being worst is Dick Trickle, who was a NASCAR driver .  Aside from being famous for being named Dick Trickle, Dick Trickle was also famous because he was the only NASCAR driver in history who had a hole screwed into his helmet so that he could smoke in the middle of races .  He had his pit crew install a cigarette lighter in his stock car, and one time after a race with very few caution flags he said  " That race went by so fast I only had time for two cigarettes !  " Number five: Ima Hogg .  The daughter of Texas governor  " Big Jim Hogg .  "  Ima Hogg was known as 'The First Lady of Texas', probably because no one wants to be known as Ima Hogg .  She was a great patron of the arts, she collected works by Picasso and Matisse, and she was a philanthropist, and she also has an honorary degree meaning that technically her name is Dr .  Ima Hogg . Number four: Harry Baals .  Hank, Harry Baals has been much in the news lately because there is a move by the city of Fort Wayne to name a building after their beloved former mayor, Harry Baals .  His name really was Harry Baals and he is a very beloved former mayor .  Like, I hear all the time on talk radio in Indiana people saying  " You know those East Coast people, they can tell us 'You can't name a building the Harry Baals Government Center ! ' Well, what this town needs is more Harry Baals .  " Number three: Shanda Lear, the daughter of the guy who founded the Learjet corporation .  Shanda Lear, uh, grew up to become a lead singer in swing bands . Number two: Hymen Lipman, who was the first person to ever attach an eraser to a pencil .  And number one: Chris P Bacon, a composer living in Los Angeles who writes music for movies .  Like, he contributed music to such music as Gnomeo and Juliet, Michael Clayton, I Am Legend .  .  .  and, Hank, he wrote the entire original score for the American classic Space Chimps .  Also just to reiterate, his name is Chris P Bacon . So Hank it just goes to show you that merely having a horrible name like Chris P Bacon or Gussie Manlove doesn't mean that you can't go on to great things like writing the score for the movie Space Chimps . Funny-named individuals, don't lose hope .  Hank, I'll see you on Wednesday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Wednesday .  Who am I kidding ?  You're not watching this; you're in Haiti ! Hank, I'm really grateful to you for being the noble brother who goes out there on the front lines to decrease World Suck because that means that I can stay in my basement . Why am I still talking to him ?  He's not watching ! We are free from the tyranny of Hank ! Okay, nerdfighters .  This morning I went to Your Pants and asked for some questions and now .  .  .  here are some answers !  " After reading Looking for Alaska, I wonder if you've thought about what you want your last words to be before you die .  "  Not at all .  To paraphrase the great John Barrymore,  " Dying is the last thing I would ever do .  "  " Did you have any nicknames as a teenager ?  "  Yeah, one time I said that Christian Slater never made a bad movie and, thereafter, a lot of my friends called me  " Kuffs .  "  " Dandy lions or dandelions ?  "  Oh, dandy lions for sure .  Do you know what happens if you wish on a dandy lion ?  He eats you .  By the way,  " The Dandy Lions "  .  .  .  really good band name .  " It's tax time again .  Any fishing boat proceeds this year ?  "  No .  Stupid fishing boats always refusing to give me proceeds .  " When's your new book coming out ?  "  In almost exactly one year .  " What's it about ?  "  Uh, it's about these two teenage cancer survivors who are both obsessed with this reclusive novelist, but it's also about a bunch of other things like Swedish hip-hop and, you know, the meaning of life and stuff .  " Is it really narrated by a girl ?  "  Yes !  Hazel !  " What's the title ?  "  I don't know !  I change it, like, every day and they all suck !  Do you have any good titles ?  If you have any good titles, please leave them in comments !  " What is the biggest obstacle, in your opinion, to getting started as a professional writer ?  "  Um, essentially, the world contains a lot of books and not that many people who are willing to pay to read them .  " Can you say the alphabet backwards ?  "  Z, Y, X, W .  .  .  no .  " Are you friends with Libba Bray ?  Have you read any of her books ?  "  Yes, I'm friends with Libba Bray, and I've read all of her books, including Beauty Queens, which isn't even out yet .  Did you know that Libba Bray just broke both of her elbows ?  I realize that sounds like a euphemism for being pregnant with twins or something, but seriously, Libba Bray just broke both of her elbows .   And I'm not even that surprised about it, to be honest .  Like, if you told me,  " John, one of your friends just broke both of her elbows, "  I would be, like,  " I bet it was Libba !  " You never here about people like Sarah Dessen breaking both of their elbows .  It just doesn't happen .  Poor Libba .  Anyway, her new book is amazing; you should pre-order it - link in the dooblydoo .  I didn't end up writing a desert island novel because, you know, after Libba's, I don't have to .  " Will you ever walk alone ?  "  No !   And if I didn't know this was a Liverpool scarf, I might think I was dressing up as Waldo for Christmas .   You don't dress up for Christmas, Green .  Get your head outta your ass .  " Hey, is your phone number secretly inserted into Looking for Alaska ?  "  Yeah .  .  .  that used to be my phone number .  I mean, when I wrote Looking for Alaska, I didn't think more than about nine people would read it, you know, so yes, I did put my phone number in it . I have a message for the person who has that phone number now: Sorry .  " Favorite old-school video game ?  "  Pong, because I like video games that are like life and Pong just keeps getting harder until you die .  " Have you ever been arrested ?  "  No .  " Coffee or tea ?  "  Coffee .  I'm hiding from the British people .  " If you could, would you ?  "  Probably not .  Let's face it: I'm not the kinda guy who does . Hank, thank you for going to Haiti .  We look forward to the most amazing Thoughts from Places videos ever, and I will see you on Friday when I upload the video that you already made .  But I will really see you on .  .  .  I'm so bad at this .  .  .  Wednesday ?  It seems so far away .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Monday .   I woke up on Friday around 8 AM in Los Angeles, the city of palm trees, pleasant weather, news helicopters, prestigious zip codes, terrible traffic, and astonishingly sparse mobile internet .   As I drove over to my friend Ransom's house I heard on the radio there had been an earthquake and a tsunami in Japan, and I was so wrapped up in the news that I got lost, and since my phone didn't work as a mobile atlas anymore, I had to call Ransom for directions .   " I mean, I see a sign that says Wilshire and I see a sign that says San Basante and the signs seem to imply, uh, that there's a perpendicular rather than parallel relationship between those two places but what you're seeing on the map disagrees with that .  "   I finally made it to his house, we went inside and read about the earthquake and then somehow got to talking about his photographs .  Ransom collects photographs taken of and by people he doesn't know .  He has thousands of them in these plastic slip cases, and he's obsessed with the stories that these photographs contain, particularly when you flip them over .  This one, for instance,  " Rock Wall near Rose Bowl Pasadena, California, where Dorothy found a baby girl on January 24, 1961 .  "   Hank, Ransom used photographs like this one to make one of the greatest YouTube videos of all time, link in the dooblydoo .   We drove down to the beach then, where this newscaster was like  " This very ocean just devastated Japan .  "   And then I ran into the water like a boss, forgetting that I had shoes on .  Then Randy took me over to the Venice Canals, a few blocks of L . A .  that look like Southern California and Amsterdam had a baby, and we walked around talking about how weird it was to stroll these sun-drenched canals on such a tragic day .   But then really, all human life is lived in close proximity to tragedy .  We saw bird flowers and a park for ducks and these turtles .  Too quiet for the camera to hear, Ransom said  " Wouldn't it be sad if a child's pool were enough to imprison you ?  "   Then I had to leave for a wedding, so I participated in an activity that people in Los Angeles call  " hopping on the freeway "  which does not in any way resemble hopping .  As I idled back toward our hotel, the news on the radio got worse and worse .   And then I put on a suit and went to the wedding .   The reception was at a beautiful home in Beverley Hills, and as I drank free champagne and looked out over the pool, I thought about how, even though we were kind of in a desert, the water had been everywhere that day .  From the pool to my champagne glass, from the turtle pond to the canals to the ocean .  I found myself wishing there were some way for those of us on one side of an ocean to tell people on the other side that we were thinking of them, a way that I could say that, not only to the people of Japan, but also to Dorothy, who had found that baby girl in 1961 .   But images can travel in a way that our thoughts can not, and that night I felt sad and frustrated that technology can never quite bridge the oceans between us .   Hank, you'll find a link to the Red Cross disaster relief fund in the dooblydoo .  Welcome back from Haiti, I'll see you on Wednesday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Friday .  I have a 101 . 2 ?  fever; we'll see if that affects my video making .     So Nerdfighteria, I was so impressed with your Gussie Manlove hunting skills that today I am sending you on a new quest to solve a 427-year-old mystery, starring Ivan the Terrible .  He's looking at me, isn't he ?  Uwuughhh !  You're so scary looking .  Why are you looking at me ?     Okay Hank, first off when it comes to Kings and Tsars, 'Great' does not mean better than good, and 'Terrible' does not mean worse than bad, although that's a common mistake .  'Great' and 'Terrible' in their classical meanings are actually quite similar, they both have connotations of power and might and authority .     Okay Hank, picture this - I know I need to button the button - you're three years old and your dad dies of a leg boil .  You wanna know why it's better to be middle class in the 21st century, than it is to be incredibly rich in the 15th century ?  Very rarely do people currently die of leg boils .  Right so you're three years old and your dad dies, which means that technically you're now the King of Russia, which is a terrible gig because like, you're mostly potty trained, but you're not totally ready to run a country .      So that means you need a regent .  Fortunately, your mom is available to be your regent .  Unfortunately, when you're eight, the nobility kills her .      So you're eight, you've got all these nobility, these boyers, running around the palace fighting with each other over who should rule the show, and you hate them .  Because they killed your mom, and they also make you nervous because they might kill you .       But when you turn 16 and you take over the throne you decide  " Y'know I'm not going to focus all my energy on negativity, on getting rid of these boyers .  I'm gonna make the world better "     You modernize the legal code, you open up trade with Europe, you annex a bunch of land and make Russia look more like .  .  .  Russia, and you marry this beautiful girl named Anastasia .  Hank, here is a lesson from history: Never be Russian and named Anastasia .      Yeah so then in 1560, your wife dies and you think the boyers did it, and you're like  " They killed my mom, they made me very anxious when I was a child, and now, I think they killed my wife "  .  So then you start to be more traditionally terrible .  You start a really ill-advised war, you have this quasi-police force that goes around massacring boyers and also anyone else they come across, and then you beat your pregnant daughter-in-law until she has a miscarriage, and then your son Ivan-should've-been-the-fifth comes up to you and he's like  " Dad, I wish you hadn't done that "  and you kill him .  In your defense, you didn't mean to kill him, you meant to, y'know, hit him .   But he died .      But Hank, in your role as Ivan the Terrible, that is not even the worst thing you ever did .  The worst was this - 427 years ago you died !  In the middle of a chess game !  Without telling anyone where your incredibly fancy library is !     Sorry, I get very upset when people screw around with libraries .     Your grandfather, Ivan the Third, married a Byzantine lady .  By Byzantine, I don't mean like, complicated, I mean like of Byzantium .  As her dowry, she brought with her a beautiful library full of illuminated manuscripts encrusted in jewels so valuable that the king of Russia was like  " Man, we have got to hide this "  .     So they built an underground library somewhere underneath Moscow - there are like thousands of miles of tunnels underneath Moscow because it's the perfect sand for tunneling, or something .   And that would have worked fine except Ivan the Terrible was so obsessed with killing boyers and expanding Russia and becoming the first real Tsar that he completely forgot about the library and died without telling anyone where it was .      In short Hank, if the legends are true, there are right now underneath Moscow billions of dollars worth of books .   And so for the last 427 years, people have been searching for it .  Nerdfighters, that is my task for you !  I have created a thread in Your Pants - link in the doobly doo - where together, we can search out information so that we might uncover everything that there is to be known about that great and terrible library .     Hank, I'll see you on Monday .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Wednesday .  I wanna begin by thanking you for your extraordinarily thoughtful and nuanced video about Haiti .   And you also gave us a real way to really help, link in the dooblydoo .   And I don't know how to respond to your brilliance and your compassion except by sharing with you stupid questions that people ask Google .     That's right, Hank, it's time for 'Google Auto-Fill once again proves that people are weird . '    Hank, today I'm going to answer the top 10 questions people ask Google beginning,  " Why does my .  .  .  ?  "     Why does my eye twitch ?   I have great news !  Your eye doesn't twitch .  More on that in a second .     Why does my cat lick me ?   Okay, I'm gonna let you in on a little secret: cats believe that all other organisms are cats .  Once you realize that, a lot of cat behavior begins to makes sense .  So, why does your cat lick you ?  Because it thinks it's grooming you .  So when your cat licks you he's thinking  " I love you gigantic hairless cat, and to show you, I will lick you .  "     Why does your urine smell ?   Probably because you're dehydrated, although it could be because you have Maple Syrup Urine Disease .  Maple Syrup Urine Disease, which, by the way, is completely real, is a rare disease with four main symptoms .  The first is that your urine smells like Maple Syrup .  The other three are coma, brain damage, and death .   But hopefully you just need to drink some water .     Why does my dog eat poop ?   Because he can .  Hank, so a couple of years ago I was at the doctor and he said,  " You have a parasite called campylobacter .  "   And I said,  " Okay, how do you get that parasite ?  "   And he said,  " You get it from eating feces .  "   And I was like,  " Well, I'm just gonna throw this out there .  Umm .  .  .  just so you know, I don't eat feces .  I mostly eat, you know, foods and then that food turns into feces, and then I just let the feces go .  "   And he was like,  " Oh yeah, most people get it by being licked by their dogs .  "  Willy Green, why did you give me campylobacter ?  Anyway, it turns out dogs eat poop mostly because they're bored or stressed out, so if your dog is eating poop, give him other stuff to do .     Why does my stomach hurt ?   I'd look into the possibility of campylobacter .     Why does my eyelid twitch ?    .  .  . Is what you meant earlier when you asked about your eye twitching .  It's probably because you stare at screens all day long, and googling the problem is not helping .     Why does my cat bite me ?   I think that's what the Zen masters would call 'a question wrongly put . ' The question isn't 'Why does my cat bite me ? ' The question is 'When did my cat become a vampire, and what can I do about it ? '  And the answers are 'Probably pretty recently or else you'd already be dead,' and 'Nothing .  I'm sorry .  Make your peace with your friends and with your enemies, because your time is short, owner of vampire cat . '    Why does my stomach growl ?   Because your stomach has told your brain to tell your stomach that you are hungry, and that leads to some muscle contractions and releases of acids and it just blorgoglggog .     Why does my dog lick everything ?   Interestingly, the same reason your dog eats poop .  It's because you spend all your time on the internet and none of your time with your dog, so he or she is bored .      And lastly, Why does my computer keep freezing ?   Why are you being so mean to your computer ?  It's obviously working well enough for you to Google .   But to answer your question, porn-bots .      So there you have it, Hank .  The ten 'How does my .  .  . ' questions people ask Google the most .  I have one for you: How does my little blue guy fall down every single time I make a video ?      Hank, thanks again for reminding us that the hardest problems are the ones that most need solving .  I'll see you on Friday, DFTBA .                 
Good morning Hank; it's Monday .  Today's video is like Voldemort's soul: It comes to you in seven parts .     Part one:  Butler .  Hank, my hometown  Butler Bulldogs are in the men's basketball final four for the second consecutive year, an astonishing achievement that looked like this at the bar where I watched the game .           I watched all the previous rounds at home, they mostly looked like this: Matt Howard, your sister is a Nerdfighter, you can hit this free throw, you can !  YES !    You're ruining it, Elmo .  You're ruining it .     By the way, Hank,  Butler star Matt Howard's sister Laura really is a Nerdfighter .  Sports and Nerdfighteria, Hank, the connections are endless .     Part two: Brandishing .  Hank, on twitter Samisemicolon writes  " I love when at realjohngreen brandishes random things like black Santas in his videos .  "  Brandish .  Brandish .  Brandish !     Part three: a definition .  Hank, it belatedly occurs to me that some Nerdfighters might not even know what basketball is, so let me define it .  Basically there's two hollow cylinders and one sphere and you're trying to put the sphere in one of the hollow cylinders without having it go in the other hollow cylinder .  It's essentially participatory geometry .     Part four: Finalists .  So Hank, this sparkly little number  " Will Grayson, Will Grayson, "  which I co-wrote, is a finalist for the Children's Book Choice Award .  Hank, actual teenagers pick the winner of this award, so if you are an actual teenager go to the link in the doobly-do and vote for your favorite book of the year .  Also also also I just learned that my new book is definitely coming out in March !  Not like, in the next two days, but, you know, we got another March that's gonna come around .  That one .  Ohhh, I should probably settle on a title soon .     Part five: an imaginary conversation with LeBron James .  Hi LeBron James, so what do you do for a living ?   " I insert spheres into cylinders !  "  Wow, that sounds extremely tedious and probably not very lucrative .   " Actually it's incredibly fun and I make millions of dollars .  "  Huh .  I wouldn't have thought that job pays well .     Part six: Titles .  So Hank, Nerdfighteria generated more than two thousand titles for my new book, many of which were very good, but none of which I'm going to use .  My original title idea was to call the book  " The Hectic Glow "  after the great Thoreau quote  " decay and disease are often beautiful, like the pearly tear of the shellfish or the hectic glow of consumption " , but the problem with  " The Hectic Glow "  is that it's like the rural juror of book titles .  You say it and people are like  " What ?  The Metric Snow ?  The Hectic Blow ?  "  I don't want people to think I wrote a book called the Hectic Blow !  Then I thought I might call it  " Omnis Cellula e Cellula "  and the nice folks at Penguin were like,  " You know what doesn't smell like a bestseller ?  Latin .  "  So I still don't have a firm title .  If you have any new suggestions, feel free to leave them in comments .     Part seven:  " Sports is like life also poop "  is a great quote from Esther .  Anyway, Hank, I would argue that sports matter .  So like if you're really into Harry Potter and you got an email from JK Rowling, that would be amazing, right ?  Like imagine that moment .  That would be a great moment .   But for some people those awesome moments are different, like the Cubs winning the World Series or a bunch of unheralded kids from a liberal arts school in Indiana going to the Final Four .      Hank, we choose what we care about, and while there are better and worse choices, I would argue that caring about sports has nothing to do with LeBron James or participatory geometry .  Ultimately, it's about community .  I'd argue that caring about sports is actually a lot like caring about Harry Potter or Dungeons and Dragons or Nerdfighteria .  Caring about stuff binds us to the other people who care about that stuff, and that creates the communities that make life worth living .      So Hank, that's my defense of sports .  Go Bulldogs !  I'll see you on Wednesday .                 
Good morning Hank; it's Friday .  Today's video is actually like Voldemort's soul because it comes to you in eight parts .  It is also like the cake, because it is, at least partly, a lie .  That's right, Hank, it's April Fool's Day .  One of these eight parts is a lie .  You will either guess the lie or I will have fooled you, which will make me the winner of an arbitrary contest of my own creation !  Which is my favorite kind of game to win .     Part one: Hank, Nerdfighters have done so much research into the great and terrible library of Ivan the Terrible that we are now the largest resource on the entire internet on the topic .   And the story they've uncovered is crazy, Hank, it involves, like, fire-proof dungeons and crucified skeletons and a supposedly-blind architect !  It's like National Treasure only it's real and the role of Nicholas Cage is played by nerds .      Speaking of Nicholas Cage, Hank, part two: Nicholas Cage has a son named Kal-El, like the birth name of Superman, his name is Kal-El Coppola Cage because, you know, Nick Cage is cousins with Sofia Coppola, who by the way made The Virgin Suicides into a movie, a book written by Jeffrey Eugenides, whose facial hair may or may not be a joke .     Part three: also, while we're on the topic of celebrities, Michael J .  Fox's middle name ?   Andrew .     Part four: Hank, I hate being one of those parents who brags, but Henry spoke his first multiple-word sentence this week, and it was very cute .  I was like  " hi "  and he was like  " hi "  and I was like  " hi "  and he was like  " hi "  and I was like  " hi "  and then he looked me deep in the eyes and he said  " Hi, cat !  "     Part five: Hank, you probably know that Marie Curie is the only person to win a Nobel Prize in both chemistry and physics, but did you know that her daughter Irene also won a Nobel Prize, making her the only Nobel Prize winner who is the mother of a Nobel Prize winner ?  It's a fact, Hank !  Or is it ?  Also, Hank, Marie Curie had a sister named Bronislawa .  It's hard out there for a Bronislawa .  Hank, this is off-topic but I will pay you one American dollar if you write a song about Marie Curie's sister called  " It's Hard Out There for a Bronislawa .  "     Part six: Hank, you may remember that I purchased Warner Chilcott stock after Warner Chilcott Warner Chilcotted you and other people with ulcerative colitis .  Well Hank, I sold that stock today for a twenty-six dollar profit !  I'm on a roller coaster that only goes up, baby !  Hank, I don't think I've ever felt worse about making twenty-six dollars .  I'd like to use that money to decrease Worldsuck, preferably in a way that Warner Chilcotts Warner Chilcott .  Nerdfighters, if you have any ideas, leave them in comments .     Part seven: Hank, people say my fear of heights is irrational, but do you know what's the most common cause of non-fatal emergency room visits between the ages of 25 and 34 ?  Unintentional fall !   And heights are the most common cause of unintentional falls, meaning that heights are the greatest non-fatal problem facing members of our generation !  So Hank, let that be a lesson to you: do not put yourself in a situation where you could fall unintentionally .     Part eight: Hank even though you're like, successful and grown up and everything, do you know that if you Google image search your name, this is the second result ?     So that's it, seven truths and one lie !  Nerdfighters, leave your guess in comments .  I hope you don't get fooled !  Hank, you're a tomato .  I'll see you on Monday .     P . S .  Nerdfighters, if you haven't seen Hank's video about the Ice Cream Chords, your mind is about to be blown .  Click anywhere on the screen and find out why Rebecca Black and Slipknot have some surprising things in common .                 
Good morning Hank; it's Monday .  On Thursday I'm going to be reading and signing in Plainfield, Indiana, and then on Friday I'm moving to the Netherlands for two months .  I keep meaning to mention to you that I'm moving to the Netherlands for two months, but there is so much going on !  In a related story, the sound that my anxiety makes is AAAAAAAAHHHHH !    And Hank, when I get stressed out I like to play  " Google auto-fill once again proves that people are weird "  .  Hank, today I'm going to answer the questions people ask Google the most beginning  " Is my b .  .  .  ?  "    " Is my boyfriend gay ?  "  Huh .  I wonder if  " is my hus "  starts similarly .  Yes .  What about  " is my wife "  -- Nope, the first two questions we have about our wives: are they cheating, and what is their tax status ?   And people say men aren't romantic, Hank .  Similarly, homosexuality never comes up if you Google  " is my g " , all we want to know is that our girlfriends are not cheating, not crazy, and that our guns are not stolen .  Off topic, Hank, but the Venn diagrammatical intersection between people who Google  " is my girlfriend cheating ?  "  and people who Google  " is my gun stolen "  ?  Worrisome .   Right, but about your possibly gay boyfriend, two things .  First, human sexuality is not an either/or proposition, and trying to deny its complexity is going to make both you and your partner miserable .  Secondly, let me submit that this is not a question for Google .  It is a question for your boyfriend !    " Is my baby sick ?  "  Listen, I know why you're asking Google this question .  You're asking because the alternative is to put a thermometer in your baby's rectum, and your baby will look up at you like  " I am not enjoying this !  "  and you'll be like  " You know what, this isn't my idea of a fun Thursday night either !  "  and then your baby'll be like  "  But I am incapable of empathy !  "   But it is my sad duty to inform you that while Google can take a picture of your house, it cannot stick a thermometer inside your baby's bottom .  That's your job, sorry .  If your baby's under six weeks old and has a temperature over a hundred and one, call your doctor immediately .    " Is my boyfriend cheating on me ?  "  Yes .    " Is my baby teething ?  "  Yes .    " Is my boyfriend losing interest ?  "  Well yeah, otherwise, why would he be cheating on you ?    " Is my boyfriend cheating on me quiz ?  "  You want a quiz ?  Okay, here is your quiz: Did you just Google  " is my boyfriend cheating on me ?  "  If you answered yes, he may or may not be cheating on you, but there is definitely a problem !  It may be that your boyfriend is cheating on you, or that he's untrustworthy, or that you're incapable of trust, or that you don't believe that you're good enough to deserve his monogamous affection .  It may be that you feel undervalued or that he feels smothered, but something has gone wrong that Google cannot answer !  You have to talk to your boyfriend .   And sometimes those conversations will result in breaking up, and I know that breaking up sucks, but it is better than having to Google  " is my husband cheating "  !    " Is my baby a boy or a girl ?  "  Probably a boy .  I mean, it's a slight probably, but I'm going with it .    " Is my boyfriend cheating ?  "  Come on, seriously ?  We just went over this !    " Is my blood pressure high ?  "  Probably, you're very anxious about your boyfriend, and that cannot be good for your health !  Ideally you want your blood pressure to be in the green or the yellow, not in the orange or the red .  Yet another example, Hank, of why it's good to be green .    And lastly,  " Is my baby sleeping too much ?  "  Okay first off, if your baby is eating enough and gaining weight, your baby is not sleeping too much .  Second off, don't take this personally, but I hate you .   So Nerdfighters with boyfriends and girlfriends, talk to each other !  Hank, don't forget to be awesome .  I gotta go upstairs and pack; I will see you on Wednesday !                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Friday .     Quick warning .  Uh, today's video is not suitable for young children .  Or anyone .     So, Hank, you recently made a video in which you briefly humped Google .  Well, a couple days later, nerdfighter extraordinaire Mattie Boosh posted you humping the TARDIS on his Tumblr and the Humpy Hank phenomenon was born .            " The mink lost her furry scarf, she said it was stolen,  The shoe salesman wanted to help, 'cause he had so much sole,   But then his whole left side fell off, but he's all right now,  The pregnant heifer saw it happen, yeah, she had a cow,   And the CO2 delivery guy always gives me gas,   And I really hate mules because they're so half-ass,  Yeah, I really hate mules because they're so half-ass .     The bike can't stand up by itself, it says it's two-tired,  The human cannonball was late for work and he got fired,   And if your pants are too big you'll get exposed in the end,   And if you crash your fancy car you'll see how a Mercedes bends,   And the CO2 delivery guy always gives me gas,   And I really hate mules because they're so half-ass,  Yeah, I really hate mules because they're so half-ass .     I forgot how to throw a boomerang, but then it came back to me,  It's just like riding a bike, or playing with your Wii,  If you don't pay your exorcist, you'll get repossessed,  The pirate shot himself so he could have that dead man's chest,   And the CO2 delivery guy always gives me gas,   And I really hate mules because they're so half-ass,  Yeah, I really hate mules because they're so half-ass,  Yeah, I really hate mules because they're so half-ass,  Yeah, I really hate mules because they're so half-ass .  "     Hank, at a historical moment like this, I am reminded of the great poet, William  Butler Yeats, who famously wrote,  "  And what rough Humpy Hank, his hour come round at last, slouches towards YouTube, to be born ?  "     Nerdfighter Karen Kavett made that music video .  She's awesome; everyone should subscribe to her .  Hank, I have to go to Amsterdam .  I'll see you on Monday .                 
Good morning Hank; it's Wednesday .  That's not a green-screen, I'm really in Amsterdam .     So Hank I'm here in Amsterdam for two months finishing my new book .  The reason I'm in Amsterdam will become obvious when you read the book .  Also the Yeti needs to be in Europe because she's working on the U . F .  pavilion for the Venice Biennale, very fancy .   And so every body has a reason to be here - say  " Hello "  to the tram - except for Henry, but, you know, he's portable .     By the way just to orient you, we're going to the flower market .     Right Hank, so back in the early sixteen-hundreds, when tulips first came to Holland, they were prized for the richness of their color .   But there were these multi-colored ones that were particularly beloved .  So most tulips look like the tulips you're used to seeing, like these .   But there were these rare and fragile and sickly looking bulbs that made beautiful tulips, like the Viceroy .  More on him in a second .     Right, so, throughout the first half of the 1630s - don't worry, this is not going to hit me - the price of tulips rose pretty steadily, and by the winter of 1636, Hank, the Dutch had become total tulip maniacs .  Particularly for those sickly-looking bulbs that made brilliant flowers, like the aforementioned Viceroy .  For the amount of money a single Viceroy bulb cost in 1637 you could have bought all of this .  I mean, Hank, forget the rye and the fat oxen .  I think I could live happily ever after with just a suit of clothes, a complete bed, and 4000 pounds of butter .  That comment probably didn't make sense to the people standing behind me .   And then in 1637, pretty much all at once, the market for tulip bulbs completely collapsed, falling like 99% in two months .  It was one of the first great bubbles of capitalism, Hank, but that's not what fascinates me, here's what fascinates me .     Those fragile-looking bulbs that made brilliant flowers like the Viceroy, it turns out they were sick with a virus called the tulip mosaic virus .  They've all long since died out, and while we can look at paintings, we will never know quite what it felt like to see the Viceroy .  I first heard of tulip mania in Atlas by Katrina Vandenberg, this brilliant book of poems that has shaped my think a lot while writing this new book .  Here's how she put it,  " Aren't you sorry you will never see a tulip that would make you offer all you own for the layered, translucent promise in its brown paper wrapper ?  "     Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank; it's Monday .  Please to be ignoring the decapitated parrot in the background .  Today's video comes to you in four parts .     Part one: my encounter with Greg Mortenson .     So Hank, Greg Mortenson, the author of 'Three Cups of Tea', has been much in the news lately .  There are accusations that he fabricated part of his memoir and that his charity doesn't run as efficiently as it should .   And Hank, it so happens that I can contribute to that conversation because I have met Greg Mortenson, and I thought I would tell you the story of how that went .     Okay, so a couple years ago, when 'Paper Towns' came out, I went to a library convention, and Penguin, my publisher, threw this author dinner for like, eight authors with two hundred or something young adult librarians .     Important note: almost all young adult librarians are ladies .     Okay, back to the story .     Right, so at this author dinner, I was one of the authors and so was Greg Mortenson, and we each had our own table that was full of librarians, and we ate dinner and drank wine and chatted and then we had to give, like, a two minute presentation .   And then I was like,  " Oh, I wrote this book, it's about Walt Whitman and imagining other people complexly, and I hope you like it .  "   And I sat down .      And then right after me, Greg Mortenson got up and he was like,  " That book sounds interesting; my book is about how I almost died and decided to devote my life to education in Afghanistan .  "      And I'm sittin' at my table kinda drunk thinking,  " Ugh, I wrote a book with a bunch of pee jokes in it, and this guy's out saving the world .  "   But then, I remember that Nerdfighters helped rebuild a school in cyclone-ravaged Bangladesh .      And I wanted to tell him about it, but he was all the way across this huge room; I could barely even see the guy, so I got the bright idea to go talk to him during the cocktail party portion of the program that followed the dinner .     So as soon as we're finished eating, I race up to Greg Mortenson and I say  " Ah, it was so great to hear your speech, I love your book " , which I hadn't read .       And Hank, as you well know, in this equation, X equals not being able to shut up, so I start talking to Greg Mortenson about this online community, Nerdfighters, and all the cool stuff that we're doing; we're building pond sand filters in Bangladesh, we're doing Kiva Micro-Loans, we built this school, it's so awesome !      And I buy him a drink - the drinks were free, but still .   And at some point I realize that I've been talking to Greg Mortenson for twelve minutes, and I have not allowed him to say a single word .     So I say,  " I'm sorry to go on so much, I'm just a huge fan of your work .  "      And then he says,  " Thank you, but I'm not Greg Mortenson .  "  Hahahahah .     Ohhhh, because ninety-five percent of young adult librarians are women, I just walked up to the white guy, figuring that that would be Greg Mortenson .   And it wasn't .     Ugh .  The humiliation is still washing over me, Hank .     So, Hank, here's what I have to add to the Greg Mortenson discussion: it seems like his heart is in the right place, although that doesn't always matter, and, uh, he looks like a lot of other white guys .     Part two: are you Dutch ?     Not you, Hank, I know you're not Dutch, but the other people, they might be .  If you are Dutch, please read the video info below; there is relevant information for you .     Part three: Hanko de Mayo .     Hank, you're birthday is coming up, it's Hanko de Mayo, May fifth .  So Hank, you're turning thirty-one .  Usually, we do something really nice for you on your birthday, except when we forget, but this year, your birthday is very inconveniently located for me because I am desperately trying to finish this book, so I have decided to outsource your birthday to Nerdfighteria .     Nerdfighters, you will find a link in the doobly-doo to a birthday thread in Your Pants where we can discuss ways to make Hank's birthday awesome .      Hank, don't read it or I will gouge out your eyes .  Probably not; that's probably excessive, but don't read it !      And lastly, part four: I'm gonna do a Question Tuesday on Friday - things that don't make sense to new viewers .  So please leave your questions in comments .     Hank, don't forget to be awesome; I will see you on Wednesday .                 
Good morning Hank; it's Tuesday, March 17th 2021 .  It's Question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real Nerdfighters .  Let's get right to it .   Can you start the video by telling Hank the wrong day ?  Sure .   Is it cougish if a seventeen year old girl goes out with a fifteen year old guy ?  When did cougish happen ?  How is cougish a thing when French the Llama continues inexplicably not to be a thing ?  Anyway, that does not strike me as cougish, it strikes me as completely normal .   Can you speak Dutch ?  No .  I keep trying to get through a whole interaction with someone only speaking Dutch, so I'll be like:  " Een bier dankuwel "   And the person will be like:  " I'm sorry, I don't understand what you're saying .  Do you want a beer ?  "   What's the most archaic thing you know how to do ?  Pretty good at turning magazine pages .   Why didn't you show the  " Good morning Hank it's Wednesday "  from Plainfield, Indiana ?  There's something wrong with my phone, and I can't get videos from my phone into my computer .  Like: Insert Plainfield video .  .  .  Yeah, that didn't work .   Why are pirates pirates ?  Because they failed out of ninja university .   Who the eff is Hank ?  Hank is a Trans-Neptunian object 27 percent more massive than Pluto .  Hank was originally named Xena, after the warrior princess, but then the scientific team that discovered Hank decided that Hank should be named something more astronomy-ish .  Like Hank .   Why haven't you done Peanut  Butter Face in a long time ?  I disagree with your premise .   This guy is really affecting my vision .  Oh yeah, that's much better .  Oh, Peanut  Butter Face .   What were some of the original titles of your books ?  Oh I'm glad I did Peanut  Butter Face before I answered the literary question .  They were always really pretentious, like  " More Light Than Heat "  or  " An Imperial Affliction "  .  Both of which, it occurs to me, would be really good with the 'in your pants' rule .   Can you explain the  " in your pants thing ?  Yeah, our friend Maureen Johnson discovered that book titles are funnier when you add  " in your pants "  to the end of them .  Like The Nature of Monsters in your pants, or The Pleasures and Sorrows of Work in your pants, or La Festa e Finita in your pants .   If Henry had been a girl, what would you have named her ?  The Yeti and I agreed in advance that if the baby was a boy, he would be named Henry, and if the baby was a girl, she would be named Bubbles the Nerdfighting Lady Baby .   Are we ever gonna find out the lie from the April Fools video ?  Yeah, the lie was that there was no lie .   How's Amsterdam ?  It's great !  The peanut butter is delicious !   Has Helen Hunt heard the Helen Hunt song yet ?  No, but did you know that Helen Hunt has a Twitter ?   What happens inside a black hole ?  We don't really know, but scientists believe that being inside of a black hole is a great way to feel special because you're guaranteed to become a singularity .  Anyone ?  No .  .  .  Singularity jokes ?  It's physics .  It's funny 'cause it's theoretical .   Can you restock the DFTBA shirts, please ?  Bing, bing, bing, bing, done .  All these shirts are back in stock at dftba . com, your independently owned, uncorporate, deliciously disorganized, friendly neighborhood e-tailer .   What are the marks on your arm ?  They're birth marks .  Get used to them because they're gonna be around for the rest of my life .  Unless my arm gets cut off .  .  .   How do you feel about Hank being a meme ?  It's not like it's a competition or anything, but just to be clear: I am also a meme .   Where is Willy ?  Is he there with you in Amsterdam ?  No .  Willy's staying with the Yeti's aunt and uncle who he likes far better than he likes me .  Willy has regarded me with suspicion ever since I revealed to you his inability to achieve a full tail-rection .  He may not like me very much, but I bet he wishes he was here right now .   What is Willy's middle name ?  Um .  .  . I guess technically it's Wilson Bubbles the Nerdfighting Puppy Roberts .   What are we doing for Hanko de Mayo ?  There is a link in the dooblydoo on this very topic .  Please click on it right now unless you are Hank .  Hank, if you click on that link, I will cut off your fingers !  Probably not; that's an exaggeration, but there will be serious consequences .  There won't be any consequences, but don't click on the link !   Shouldn't you be writing your new book right now ?  Yes .  Yes, I should .  Hank, I'll see you on Monday .                 
Good morning, Hank; it's Friday .     I woke up early yesterday with nothing to do but write and thought,  " I think I might just go to Belgium today .  "  So I walked down to Amsterdam Central Station and bought a ticket on the slow train to Antwerp .  I wanted time away from the Internet and my life, time to write .     Hank, watching people write is boring, and in my case at least it doesn't even involve that much typing, but writing does, at least for me, require quite a lot of concentration, and to concentrate you must be prepared to face the terrifying specter of boredom without fear .  In that respect, at least, both the reading and writing of books have become kind of countercultural activities in the social media era .  Books don't lend themselves to multitasking; they don't automatically update .   And as much as much as I love the Internet, I'm happiest when I'm writing .     Got into Antwerp knowing nothing about the city, except that there are Winkles to the left and Winkles to the right, and emerged from the train station into this central square .      My general strategy for visiting a place I haven't done any research about is just to find someone who looks like a tourist and follow them to wherever they're going because I figure they did the research for me .  Then I just stop at any old buildings and/or zoos .      This dude had a guidebook in his pocket so I followed them, and sure enough, they led me to two sweet old buildings, although neither was open .  So I returned to the train station to find more tourists to stalk whereupon I noticed,  " Holy crap there's the zoo .  "     At the zoo I saw little monkeys, and big monkeys, and swingy monkeys, and this monkey with pants picking up sticks for the presumed purpose of building a nest, and this monkey with pants planting ferns in some kind of primitive experiment in agriculture, and almost puppy-sized elephants, and tigers, and zebra-giraffe-horses, and this penguin that appeared to be decapitated but was in fact just sleeping, and badass fish, and a shark chatting with a seahorse - okay, that was on television - and this tortoise !      I tried to tell him that he needed to go on and brush his shoulder off, on account of how his shoulder appeared to be storing the fecal matter of a different tortoise, but he either didn't understand me or he was making a fashion statement .  I also saw these giraffes who were separated from me only by a ankle-high fence and a tiny water fountain .  Hank, I filmed them for like ten minutes, and they kept looking at me like,  " No matter how long you leave that camera on, we are not going to mount each other .  "     Then I went back to the station where I rode the worlds coolest escalator, up and then straight, and up again !  How are these miraculous escalators only in Belgium !  ?  Did the Belgians patent them ?  We must wrest this technology from their tiny polylingual hands !      Minutes later at my train platform, I learned that my train was  " afgeschaft " , and I was like  " I hope that doesn't mean delayed "  .      Since everyone is leaving, I think that was bad .     It means abolished .   But another train came an hour later, and I wrote all the way home .      And that, Hank, is how I lived for a day without the Internet .     I'll see you on Monday .                 
Good morning Hank; it's Wednesday, May 18th, 2011, also known as  Button Your  Button Day .  Hank, in the last 24 hours I finished the big revision of my novel and I also watched your poetic commencement address, and it made me think a lot about education and why we're alive and stuff .     Right, so when we think about education we often think about a soft/hard continuum .  On the far edge of hard, you have mathematics which, you know, there's only one right answer, and everything's about numbers and data .   And then on the far edge of the soft side you have the study of literature, where everything's about, you know, what it means to be a person in a world full of other people and how to understand ourselves in history and all that boring stuff .      You know what I'm talking about, Hank: history's pretty soft, physics is pretty hard, biology is somewhere in the middle because, you know, it involves adorable baby pigs but they're dead and you have to dissect them .  Psychology thinks that it's hard but it's actually soft; economics thinks that it's soft but it's actually hard, you know what I'm talking about !     Right, except in my opinion, Hank, that continuum is complete and utter .  .  .  Warner Chilcott .  So Hank, when you study mathematics, you're really studying two things: first you're studying mathematical language .  So the simplest kind of mathematical language is that when we talk about the number seven we're not only talking about seven donuts or seven pairs of pants, we're talking about the abstracted idea of seven .   And then when you get to algebra, the language of mathematics suddenly involves letters .   And the language of math gets more and more complex as you learn, which is why, when I read something by Brotherhood 2 . 0 Resident Mathematician Daniel Biss, I feel illiterate .     So that's the first thing you're doing when you study math .  The second thing is that you're attempting to understand the universe, right ?  I mean, I don't want to overstate the matter, but that's basically what we're doing .  Ultimately, the reason that we have to know that the square root of four is two is because it helps us to build cathedrals and think about space and make out with people, but more on that in a second .     Right, so we study math for the twin reasons of wanting to learn mathematical language and wanting to understand our place in the universe, which turns out to be precisely why we also study literature: to learn about language and to understand our place in the universe .  Which by the way, Hank, gets to the thing that make me angriest in the entire world, which is when people say that there is only one right answer in math, but that every answer is equally correct in literature .  That's just bunk !     First off, there is often more than one correct answer in math, and secondly NOT EVERY ANSWER IS EQUALLY CORRECT IN LITERATURE !  I am a giant squid of anger !     For instance, Hank, if you think that The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn is a pro-slavery novel, you're wrong !  You're as wrong as you are if you think that the square root of four is strawberries !     Right, so students of the world, I want you to look at me for a second .  Most of the questions that you're asking in your literature classes are not that interesting .  Like the question of whether the author intended that symbol or that metaphor- let me tell you, as an author who intends symbols and metaphors- that question is not interesting .      It doesn't matter if, when I was writing Paper Towns, I wanted the Great White Wall of Cow to reference the Great White Wall of Whale in Moby Dick .  The Great White Wall of Cow and/or Whale isn't there for you to think about authorial intent, it's there for you to think about nature's seemingly absolute apathy toward individual humans and what the heroic response to that apathy is .   And the reason that reading critically, like reading for theme and metaphor and symbol is important is because those things are ways in to the big, interesting questions, many of which are same questions that math is trying to answer .     Hank, the vast majority of us imagine ourselves as like literature people or else as like math people .   But the truth is that the massive parallel processor known as the human brain is neither a literature organ or a math organ .  It is both and more .     Hank, putting aside learning for learning's sake, I'd argue that understanding the universe and its inhabitants is helpful in pretty much every human endeavor, which is why nerds, in my experience, are more likely to understand special relativity and also more likely to be good at kissing .      So math people, let me tell you that imaginary stories can be every bit as intellectually engaging as imaginary numbers .   And literature people, I am here to tell you that set theory is every bit as fascinating and moving and beautiful as the Great Gatsby .      Hank, I'll see you on Monday .  Is it Friday ?  No, it's Wednesday, isn't it .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .  God, I'm so bad at days !   But really Hank, are days of the week math or literature ?  They're both .                 
Good morning Hank; it's Monday ! Goedemorgen Hank; het is Maandag ! Hank, that amazing historic building behind those Nerdfighters .  .  .  is a post office . Hank, today's video comes to you in five parts .  By the way, I had to put the puff on vacation because I'm getting ready for the very fancy Venice Biennale .  I also had to buy a couple suits .  Nerdfighters, do you like this shirt/jacket combo ?  Because if you do, I will wear it at a party, but if you don't, I won't . Right, that wasn't part one, that was just a preface .  Part one: the unicorn . So over the last month of living in Amsterdam I have repeatedly had to use Google Translate to translate documents from Dutch into English, and even though it's not a perfect tool, obviously, you usually get a sense of what people mean and so you're able to be at the right places at the right time or whatever . So two nights ago I had dinner with my Dutch translator Eli and some publishing people, and in the document describing that dinner it was just, you know, a list of who was going to be there, and then the last sentence of the paragraph was this, which Google translated:  " We do not know which of them will eat the Unicorn .  "   And I was like  " This is going to be some dinner, "  because basically Hank, there are only three categories of dinners .  There are dinners where there will be no unicorns served, dinners where you know who will eat the unicorn, and then there are the dinners where you don't find out who is eating the unicorn until you get there . Anyway, Hank, when we got to the dinner I immediately volunteered to eat the unicorn .  I mean, first off I know that unicorn blood is restorative, and secondly I hate unicorns because the fact that their blood is restorative is the reason that Voldemort was able to, you know, kill so many nice wizards .   But it turns out it wasn't on the menu; I ended up having the sea bass, which was also very good . Part two: Gus, illustrated by Suzanne Van Leir .  Hank, as I'm sure you recall, when the Yeti was pregnant with Henry, Nerdfighteria made me illustrations of my favorite out-of-print picture book so that I could read  " Gus is a Bug "  to Henry .   But Suzanne went the extra mile, turning her illustrations for  " Gus is a Bug "  into an actual book that Henry loves !   And by loves, I mean chews on .  I just thought that was amazing, Hank . Part three: spoilers .  So you will notice that when I was talking about the unicorn blood I did not say which wizards Voldemort kills .  Hank, I've often said over the years that I don't believe in spoilers, but, to borrow a phrase from President Obama, my position on spoilers is evolving .  Specifically it has evolved from not believing in them .  .  .  to believing in them . This positional evolution has happened because my new book is quite spoilable, and I realized that I don't want it spoiled for readers, so like nine months in advance, I am going to begin asking you and Nerdfighteria: please don't spoil the book .  We will work hard to create safe spoilery places, and then there will be the big, unblemished, unspoiled world outside, yeah ? By the way, Hank, I've started saying that because people say that here, yeah ? Part four: punishments .  Hank, we still haven't decided on punishments; we need to do that this week .  .  .  yeah ? Part five: Tumblr .  Hank, you and I have both been fans of the Tumblr  " Eff Yeah Nerdfighters "  -- link in the dooblydoo -- for many years, but it wasn't until earlier this month that we both got Tumblrs .  We got them on the same day .  It's very cute how we do things on the same day .  It's almost as if we're brothers, you know, who really l-lo-li-like each other . Hank, Tumblr seems to be the number one destination to find Nerdfighter jokes and Looking for Alaska quotations and DFTBA tattoos and Nerdfightastic Google investigations and Pizza John/Looking for Alaska jokes and entire websites devoted to Humpy Hank .  Hank, the Yeti is very amused by Humpy Hanks, but when she saw the one where you hump me, she said  " It's gone too far "  . Anyway Nerdfighters, if you're on Tumblr you should definitely follow Eff Yeah Nerdfighters .  You can also follow Hank; he's at edwardspoonhands, which in my opinion is the most under appreciated Hank song .  And in my continuing attempts to profit from the bounty of the ocean, you can find me at fishingboatproceeds . tumblr . com . Hank, don't forget to be awesome; you'll see more from Bruges on Friday, but first, I'll see you on Wednesday .                 
Good morning Hank; it's Friday . I woke up last Sunday in Bruges . Uughh . Hmm .  I wonder what happened the night before . What starts with L and rhymes with mistake ?   .  .  . Let's have another beer .  .  .  take . Got up anyway, took a shower, brushed my teeth, got dressed- wait, why aren't you brushing your teeth ? Cause I left my toothbrush in Amsterdam . Right, so I headed out into Bruges with a burning need to disregard currency and acquire one, a toothbrush, and two, some of that fancy Belgian chocolate I'd heard so much about . Fortunately, Bruges has a lot of stores; unfortunately most of them are closed on Sunday mornings, and I was starting to worry that I was going to have to do the non-ideal pre-modern thing of brushing one's teeth with one's finger when ah look !  Chocolate !  The woman wrapped up my chocolate for me in a fancy box as if I was not going to eat it right away . Did you know, Hank, that the ancient Belgians used chocolate as a way of staving off bad breath .  .  .  is a fact I just made up ? I found a lot of places that didn't sell toothbrushes like the French Fry Museum and a fancy shoe store and a book store with John Green books and the Concept Store which presumably only sells concepts; I wanted to buy utilitarianism, but it was closed . I kept walking until at last I found Sam & Co, uw buurtwinkel .  Hank, I know from my extensive knowledge of Dutch that  " winkel "  means  " store " ; I could only hope that  " buurt "  meant  " toothbrush "  .  .  .  and it did .  It did occur to me that I paid two euros for something that if you gave me one hundred years, I could not build from scratch . Hank, I realize this is stating the obvious, but everything in Bruges is really fracking old .  This is a school .   And this is a Domino's .  Parts of Bruges's famous belfry date back to 1240 meaning that this building is four hundred years older than the idea of gravity . I heard a lot of people call Bruges  " quaint "  but while it did feel like an open-air history museum to me, there's nothing quaint about living amid history, grappling with the gifts and insufficiencies of your ancestors . To live in Bruges is to be reminded every day that there were people before you were a person, which of course also reminds you that there will be people after .  I think we owe both the dead and the not-yet-living precisely the same thing-- the daily awareness that human life is ours only in trust . It's worth remembering that seven hundred years later, we don't remember the individuals who built the belfry or dug the canals; we don't remember their political affiliations or even their nationalistic identities; we remember them as a collective, just as we ourselves will be remembered as a collective for what we did and failed to do together . Later I found myself in a park with Nerdfighters from all over Belgium, grateful to be part of a community that builds friendships while trying to make the world suck less . In short, Hank, I felt grateful to the 13th century, but lucky to be alive in 2011, living in a world where with a series of ones and zeros, we can build our own relationships and our own monuments .  Plus, toothbrushes are crazy cheap ! Hank, I'll see you on Monday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Wednesday .  I'm in Venice and I'm really sick, but I don't want to talk about either of those things .  I want to talk about the Evil Baby Orphanage and our first president, George Washington .      Right, so, Hank, as I'm sure you recall, a few years ago Nerdfighters came up with the idea that instead of, like, going back in a time machine and KILLING evil people when they're babies, we could go back and kidnap them and take them to the Evil Baby Orphanage where, you know, we could rehabilitate them .     Hank, it's obviously a fantastic idea, aside from the small problem of, you know, time travel being .  .  .  quite challenging .   But here's my question, Hank: how do you decide who is a good candidate for the Evil Baby Orphanage ?      Take, for example, George Washington .  Terrible Evil Baby Orphanage candidate, right ?  Like, he fought the British in the War for Independence, he was a huge part of the American constitution, represented democracy, wooden teeth, six-foot-eight, weight a frickin' ton, all that stuff .  He was also inarguably REALLY good at being the American president .       But, Hank, what if our nearly universal assumption that the American Revolution was a good thing is wrong ?  Like, let's say we kidnap George Washington as a baby and take him to the Evil Baby Orphanage,  " how, if at all, does that change history ?  "  turns out to be a pretty interesting question .  Let's assume - although I think this is a bit dubious - that somehow removing George Washington from history causes us to lose and/or not fight the Revolutionary War .  It probably takes the United States at least 70 more years to achieve its independence, like, let's assume that we're following the  " Canada Model " , but we still eventually end up with a representative democracy, and if we're following the  " Canada Model " , some excellent beer .      Furthermore, as pointed out in M . T .   Anderson's brilliant novel The Astonishing Life of Octavian Nothing, the revolutionary war was decidedly a bad thing for the people who most needed the protection of a government: the slaves .   And Hank, it's almost certain that slavery would have ended earlier in America if we had just remained a British colony .  Furthermore, Hank, it's not totally unreasonable to assume that, with slavery ending in the early 19th century at some point, we might have avoided the Civil War, which was the bloodiest conflict in United States history, resulting in 600,000 dead people .       But it doesn't stop there, Hank, because we know that one of the key factors in the French Revolution was that France bankrupted itself helping us fight our revolution .  Now, Hank, I'm not saying that George Washington - who, by the way, was a slave-owner - is responsible for a century of slavery or 600,000 dead people .  I'm just saying that, as usual, the truth resists simplicity .      So, Hank, here's my non-rhetorical question for the day: how do we know who's a good candidate for the Evil Baby Orphanage, given the complexity of history ?   And more importantly, how do we know that we ourselves are not living lives that could result in us going to the Evil Baby Orphanage ?     Let's continue the conversation in comments and in Your Pants .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank !  Good morning, Hank .  Good morning, Hank, good morning, Hank .  .  .  I wonder if I've ever said any three-word phrase more often in my life .   Anyway, it's Monday .  I hope you enjoyed Venice, Florida as much as I enjoyed Venice, Italy; I was there because the Indianapolis Museum of Art, where the Yeti is a curator, commissioned the 2011 'American Pavilion of the Venice Biennale', which is a REALLY fancy deal .   For example, not to brag, I went to a party with Michael Stipe, the lead singer of REM, who wrote the song 'Stand' which you and I choreographed a dance to in 1989, which our dad videotaped and then blessedly lost .   The artist the IMA commissioned is called Allora & Calzadilla, and the pavilion is a total success - it involves overturned tanks and Olympic decathletes and gymnasts and an actual ATM machine that is also an actual pipe organ !     Hank, this is the first time the commission for the Venice Biennale has gone to a museum that isn't on either coast or the Art Institute of Chicago, and I'm really proud of everybody at the Indianapolis Museum of Art for making it such a huge success .  It makes me super happy to be an Indianapolisian .  Or Indianapolisicist .  Or Indianapolicious .  Indianapolicious .   Hey, where are you from ?  Oh me ?  I'm Indianapolicious .   In other news, Hank, this is my book !  It arrived today from New York, where my editor and publisher Julie Strauss-Gabel sent it to me, you know, with all of her comments on the pages and everything .   I'm very excited, Hank, because even though Julie and I have been revising this book for more than a year, we finally reached the point where she, like, writes on the manuscript, and we can do the fun stuff like fighting about how to spell the word stormtrooper .   And she can write little notes making fun of me, like about how in my fictional universe every day is Friday .   This is a big problem with my writing, Hank .  I'll often write, like,  " On Friday, Augustus Waters called me .  Three days later, on Friday, we went out to lunch, "  and Julie's just like  " Are you even trying ?  Are you even trying to figure out what day it should be ?  "  and I'm like  " No !  I'm not trying !  That's your job .  "    But in fact, Hank, while that's the public's perception of what an editor does, the truth is somewhat more complicated, as usual .  The real heart of the editorial process happens way before we ever start fighting about whether  " stormtroopers "  is one word or two, and whether every day can be Friday; it starts when I send Julie a draft and then she sends me an editorial letter .    And that editorial letter isn't about comma splices--it includes sentences like,  " As we crack open Augustus's philosophy and contrast it with Hazel's more connected sense of living, I also think there's a lot of room to look more at the question of the nobility, and frankly the epic sexiness, of sacrifice/violence versus the unsung struggle of illness; in short: what constitutes martyrdom ?  "   As you can see, Hank, that's not about spelling .  By the way, Julie, if you're watching this, I am not changing my spelling of stormtroopers unless and until George Lucas himself calls me and tells me that it's two words .  That said, you're right about everything else, and, no matter how happy it would make Rebecca Black, I agree with you that every day should not be Friday .   So, Hank, I think the assumption that editors exist primarily to, like, fix grammar errors is really incorrect .  I mean, I could just read the universe through the Chicago Style Manual; I don't need Julie for that .   But !  I also think it's incorrect when people think that the main reason editors exist is to, like, censor your work, or to somehow make it worse .   Without Julie, Paper Towns would be devoted largely not to Walt Whitman's poem Song of Myself but to an incredibly boring history of the machinations of the United States Postal Service .   And without Julie, instead of Colin and Hassan hunting for feral hogs in rural Tennessee, there would be this 75-page--and I'm not making this up--how-to guide about how to take a roadkilled raccoon, skin it, and then tan its hide .   I don't know what I was thinking, Hank, but back in 2005 I was really interested in hide tanning .    And without Julie and before her my amazing mentor and first editor Ilene Cooper, nothing that anyone likes about Looking for Alaska would be in that book .   In short, Hank, while God knows I'd like to think that writers are more important than editors, the truth is that we may not be .  I mean, there is a reason that The Great Gatsby and The Sun Also Rises were edited by the same guy .   Hank, I'm going to get to work .  I'll see you on Friday .    I didn't--I didn't even do that on purpose, I promise .  Ohhhh, it's like I have calendrically specific dementia .                 
Good morning, Hank it's-  Wait, who the eff is Hank ?   Hank is a sentient android from the Star Trek: The Next Generation universe, who, as any true fan would know, is capable of reproduction because he had a daughter !   Anyway, your video on Monday was one of my favorite Vlogbrothers videos, ever, but I can't believe you got your Star Trek facts wrong !   Right, so it's Tuesday; I'm gonna upload this tomorrow after spending all day flying across the world with a baby, but right now it's Tuesday; it's Question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real Nerdfighters !    " Do you have a vegetable garden ?  "   Well, this is my backyard at the moment, so, no, unless, are cigarettes vegetables ?  Because, if so, yes !    " What's up with all the shoes and feet in the foreign editions of your books ?  "   Are there a lot of shoes and feet in the foreign editions of-- ?  Holy crap, there are a lot of shoes and feet in these foreign editions !  I don't know what's up with that !    " Did something happen with 'Let It Snow ? ' "   Yes, Hank, the movie rights to  " Let It Snow "  just sold to Paramount, a large movie studio out there in Hollywood .  They also own the movie rights to  " Looking for Alaska, "  which they have not yet made, but you never know, maybe they'll make .  .  .  one of them .  Someday .    " Can Henry be in today's video ?  "   Briefly .    " During your stay, have you learned any Dutch ?  "   Koninginnedag !    " What are some of the major differences you've noticed between the U . S .  and Europe ?  "   Well, the biggest difference is that in the US, sixty percent of bankruptcies are caused by medical costs, whereas in the Netherlands, zero percent of bankruptcies are caused by medical costs .    " What's the title of your new book ?  "   It's still not totally decided, believe it or not, so I can't tell you yet, but soon .  .  .    " Will you ever restart the Nerdfighter Blurbing Book Club ?  "   Now, that's an idea .  Hank, it's summertime, and you know what that means in Nerdfighteria, it means wearing SPF30 every time you go outside and reading classic American literature for fun !   Hank, I hereby announce that the new book in the Nerdfighter Blurbing Book Club is none other than The Great Gatsby by F .  Scott Fitzgerald .  There's a link to purchase the book in the doobly-doo, although, if you don't live in the United States, it's probably public domain and you can probably download it for free .  Regardless, it's cheap .   It's possible you've already read this book, and maybe you even hated it, but that's because you weren't reading it with me !  So whether you're reading it for the first time or reading it again, that's our book !  Let's read it !  The Great Gatsby !    " When are you gonna get Pizza John shirts back in my size ?  "   Now !  Bam !  I just did it !  dftba . com/pizza !  I am here to solve your problems !    " How do I best confront the urge toward Nihilism ?  "   Well, not that kind of problem .  Your smaller problems .  You know, pizza shirt related problems .    " What is the name of the hospital you were born in ?  "    .  .  . asked the identity thief .    " Does the Yeti wear DFTBA shirts ?  "   Yes, but infuriatingly, she refuses to wear a Pizza John shirt because she thinks it's creepy .  I don't know what's so creepy about it .    " Never eat pizza again, or never-- "   That one !  The one where I can still eat pizza !    " What's Hank's punishment ?  "   Hank, I've chosen the punishment that was most popular in Nerdfighteria, and that is Humpy Hank All Over Town !  I don't know why Nerdfighters want to see that, but apparently they do, so that's your punishment .  Hump the town .    " What are your thoughts on Tumblr ?  "   My thoughts ?  I think it's the number one destination on the internet for images of Paula Deen riding me .    " Do you think benign dictatorships are a good form of government ?  "   To be honest, I think  " benign dictatorship "  is a bit of an oxymoron .    " Who's your biggest inspiration ?  "   You .  I know that's cheesy, but it's also the truth .  I write books and make videos because I am inspired by you to try to tell you stories that will be interesting and hopefully kind of helpful ?   I've seen my own life changed by books, and honestly, there's just no greater inspiration than the opportunity to do that for other people .    " When teachers say 'the author means .  .  . ' do you really mean those things ?  "   Yeah, probably, but in my opinion, teachers shouldn't say that because 1 .  teachers aren't really in the business of reading authors' minds, and 2 .  and more importantly, what authors mean doesn't really matter, I don't think ?   What's important is that critical reading can be a way into thinking quite deeply about questions that are difficult and complicated, and not in some, like, boring and abstract way, like,  " Oh, in Moby Dick, white is a symbol for nature's ambivalence to man, "  but instead in a concrete and totally interesting way, like,  " Nature's complete indifference to you as expressed by the color white in Moby Dick is something that you had better get your head around, or else you're going to end up like Captain Ahab !  "   So, it's so not much about uncovering secret mysteries for the sake of uncovering secret mysteries; it's about using story as a way into thinking about our actual lives and how we're actually living them .   And that's how we're going to try to read The Great Gatsby .   Hank, I'm gonna go pack; I will see you on Friday !                 
Good morning Hank; it's Monday .      Nerdfighters often ask us if we're religious, a topic we've been reluctant to discuss over the years mostly because the quality of discourse about religion on the internet is .  .  . atrocious .  That said, many nerdfighters know that a decade ago I worked as a chaplain at a children's hospital .   And I was also briefly enrolled in, although I actually never attended, the University of Chicago's divinity school .  So today I'm going to share everything I have to say about religion .  Hopefully that will lead to a productive and thoughtful conversation, although given the history of the internet and conversations about religion .  .  . probably not .     Okay Hank, so I would submit that almost all human lives are usually lived in a state of, like, functional nihilism .  Very few of us believe that human life is devoid of all meaning and that all we should do is answer to our base urges and fulfill our basic desires and try to distract ourselves from pain or fear or unpleasantness, but almost all of us act as if we believe that .  Like I have this massive parallel processing unit that sits on top of my neck that I could use to, like, contribute to cancer research or write a novel or puzzle through quantum mechanics .   And I have this amazing body that I could use to plant trees or fight wild fires or harvest food for the poor .     Hank, remember that time I said I have an amazing body ?  I don't mean that I have an amazing body .  I mean everybody has .  .  .  it's amazing what our bodies can do .      But I don't usually do any of that stuff .  Hank, most of my free time is spent, like, watching television, playing video games, or searching for lols .     Christians, Muslims, atheists, whatever, all of us share this worldview; almost none of us would abandon our comforts to help others; almost all of us would acknowledge that much of our time each day is wasted .     In short, Hank, if we just judge humans by their actions, we look like a bunch of nihilists .   But we aren't nihilists because we all feel called to make the world better .  To understand and observe the universe .  To make art, to bring beautiful things into life .  To contribute in some way to the human experiment .     Everybody wants their lives to matter, to have meant something .  That call to meaning is the foundation of religious worldviews, but it's also the foundation of successful secular worldviews which is why I don't really care to debate the existence of God with people .     Like, Hank, imagine you wake up in the middle of the night and your house is covered in smoke and you hear an invisible voice shout  " Your house is on fire !  "  Hank, in that situation I would find it, like, totally uninteresting to have a discussion about where that voice was coming from and how it got in the house and was it God or a fireman .  I would just, you know, leave .     In short, Hank, for me at least, debating the mere existence of God is a way of avoiding the deeper and more devastating question of how we are going to bring meaning to human life .      I think that's, broadly speaking, the point of religion .  Religion is essentially a response to revelation .   And that revelation almost always calls us to embrace meaning, or, if it doesn't innately exist, then to create meaning .   But that's also true for atheistic humanism .  We are all facing the same question: what are we going to do with our consciousness ?     Will we seek to fight poverty or climate change or disease or war or spend all our resources ensuring that we have a beautifully manicured lawn with absolutely no weeds ?      Sorry, I'm on a bit of a lawn kick at the moment because my next door neighbor is not terribly happy with me for leaving the country for two months during the, uh, lawn growing season .  It's just grass, dude !  Actually .  .  .  it's not just grass .  That's his problem .  It's also a lot of dandelions .     So what are we going to do about consciousness and how are we going to balance our urge to be more than nihilists with our need to blunt the sharp edges of consciousness with funny stuff like Paula Deen riding Paula Deen riding me or Humpy Hank ?     Those are interesting questions, Hank, and Nerdfighteria has been talking about those questions for years now .  Some of us through a religious lens, some of us through a secular lens, but the lens doesn't interest me as much as the questions .     Sorry this video didn't contain many jokes .  To make up for it, here is a baby rhinoceros .  Also, as penance, I will eat 36 disgusting sandwiches on Friday .     Hank, don't forget to be awesome .  I will see you on Wednesday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Fri- Blue guys, what are you doing lyin' around on the job ?  Show some respect for my audience .     That's better .     So Hank, I've been sick lately - in fact, I have a note from my doctor saying I don't have to do my punishment - but I wanted to continue our conversation about religion .   But I also know that some people find that kinda boring, so here's some dancing, dancing, dancing, dancing, dancing, dance, dance, dance, dance !     Right, so Hank, in your video on Wednesday, you pointed out how difficult it can be to answer yes or no questions like  " Do you believe in God ?  "  because you have to define terms like  " believe "  and  " God .  "  Also,  " in .  "   And that made me think about how difficult it is to define any religious identity .      Like, for instance, Muslims - Muslims believe in the Five Pillars of Islam, right ?  You have the shahada, the belief that there is no God but God; prayer, at least five times a day .  Then you have alms giving or Zakat, the pilgrimage to Mecca, and there's a fifth one - Ramadan .  Right, so those are the Five Pillars of Islam, the foundation of Islamic belief .  Except the majority of Muslims don't follow the Five Pillars of Islam; for instance, the majority of Muslims don't pray five times a day .      Similarly, many Jews don't practice kosher, many Buddhists disagree radically about the nature of Nirvana and the path to get there, and many Christians think other Christians are going to hell because they believe that Jesus visited America or because they believe in transubstantiation, or all kinds of things .      In fact Hank, one time when I was in college, I visited a Pentecostal church in rural Florida, and it was really interesting .  There was this one moment when a woman said to the pastor,  " Could you pray for my sister ?  She's on this horrible path to damnation .  She's completely lost .  "   And the pastor was like,  " Yeah, what's the problem ?  "   And the woman was like,  " She's going to the Pentecostal church across the street .  "   And then the pastor was like,  " Oh yeah, that is a problem .  "      So even if you open up all the matryoshka dolls, even within a particular denomination of a particular sect of a particular religious tradition, there are still big disagreements .  I mean, one of the fascinating things about identifying yourself within a religious tradition is that, no matter who you are, there will always be people within that very religious tradition who say that you are not Jewish or Muslim or Christian or whatever .     Okay, this is getting a little serious .  Let's dance .  Dance, dance, dancin', dance, dance dance dance, dance, dance !     This makes it incredibly challenging to define the word  " Christian "  or  " Muslim "  or  " Jew, "  because ultimately, there are Muslims who I have more theologically in common with than many of my fellow Christians .   And I think that's one of the reasons religious traditions often look back to some point in history where it seems like things weren't as fuzzy as they are now .  Like in Islam there's the Age of the Golden Caliphate - the first four caliphs; in Christianity there's, you know, Paul and the initial apostles when Christianity was first starting to grow; in Judaism you have the rule of King David .   But the truth is that there was never a golden age, and certainly there's no way to recapture the golden age by trying to go back to it .  We know this, Hank, due to thousands of years of failure .      So how do you know, for instance, if you're a nerdfighter ?  You as a nerdfighter are constantly inventing and evolving the definition of that word .  So please don't forget to be awesome .     Hank, I will see you on Monday .                 
Good morning Hank; it's Wednesday .      In case you missed the news yesterday, I can finally tell you the title of my new-- video title, you ruined it !  The title was inspired by a line from Shakespeare's Julius Caesar:  " The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars/  But in ourselves, that we are underlings .  "  Which is an easy thing to say if you're like, you know, Shakespeare or a Roman nobleman, but in the broad sense, I don't know that I agree with Shakespeare a hundred percent so, that's the title, The Fault in Our Stars .  I actually kind of stole the title from a Nerdfighter, missxrojas on YouTube, so thank you Nerdfighteria !     In other thank you Nerdfighteria news, these are the top three bestselling books on Amazon right now, Hank .  The Fault in Our Stars is number one on both Amazon and Barnes and Noble .      YES !  I have an exclamation to use in such situat-- French the Llama .      Thank you so much to everyone who's pre-ordered the book; there's a link in the doobly-doo, dft . ba/tfios-- that's not a very good title for shortening-- uh, at which you can pre-order the book, so yeeedadababoobok !  It's only like nine dollars !     Also Hank, if you pre-order The Fault in Our Stars, there is a one hundred percent chance that it will be autographed by me, and when I say one hundred percent chance, I mean that I am signing every single copy of the first printing .   And I don't mean some machine is gonna sign it, I mean I'm gonna sign it with my hand, also probably a Sharpie .     Speaking of which, Hank, a couple days ago I was at Target and I was in the Sharpie aisle and I was trying to decide like which Sharpie to use for signing these, uh, tens of thousands of books .   And I had a bit of an existential crisis, because I was like do I sign it in black Sharpie but if I do that then they might not even think it's real, if I do like blue or red it might be kinda like ostentatious, if I do green they're gonna think I'm punning on my name !  So Hank, I'm just gonna delegate this whole Sharpie-color fiasco; there is a link in the doobly-doo to a poll in Your Pants .  That sounds dirty .     Also Hank, in the last twenty-four hours, Nerdfighters have made hundreds of covers for The Fault in Our Stars, some of them really, really good; in fact, there are so many really, really good ones that I want to show them all to you, but I don't have anything left to say so I'm just gonna throw you a Sing-a-ma-jig concert .           God, I'm good at the Sing-a-ma-jig .     So, to summarize, Hank, pre-order link in the doobly-doo, all pre-orders will be signed, thank you so much for making it the number one best-seller on Amazon, and   also for your amazing covers .  In retrospect, Hank, I don't know why I spent four years writing this book when I could have just made a hit Sing-a-ma-jig album .      In other news, Nerdfighters, I don't know if you've started reading The Great Gatsby, but I'm going to start talking about it today, but I'm only going to talk about the epigraph and the first sentence, so no spoilers .  At this rate it's going to take me like twelve hundred videos to get through the book .     Right, so Hank, you know how pretentious novels like this one always start with quotes at the beginning of the book-- those are called epigraphs .  Well The Great Gatsby has a famous epigraph by the poet Thomas Park D'Invilliers that goes like this:  " Then wear the gold hat, if that will move her, if you can bounce high, bounce for her too, until she cry lover, gold-hatted, high-bouncing lover, I must have you .  "     So here's an interesting thing about that epigraph, Hank: Thomas Park D'Invilliers doesn't exist .  So two things to remember about the epigraph: one, it's made up, and two, it contains the word 'golden' twice .  Both of which are important, because Gatsby is essentially a book about things that are made up and/or golden .  So keep that in mind as you're reading .  Other things to keep in mind: anybody wearing glasses and the green light .  God, I love the green light, it's my favorite metaphor in any book ever !  Except maybe Holden's hunting hat .       And the last thing I would ask you to notice is the lyricism of the novel, I mean you can almost hear the rhythm of it from the first sentence .   " In my younger and more vulnerable years my father gave me some advice I have been turning over in my mind ever since .  "      Ok now I feel like a teacher .  To give you an assignment, you have until two weeks from today to read the first six chapters of Gatsby, and there will be a quiz, and I don't want any sass !      Alright Hank, just to remind you, don't forget about the poll in Your Pants; I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank; it's Monday, July 4, 2011 .      It's Independence Day here in the United States, and today I'm going to talk about financial independence, specifically how young people can turn their crappy summer jobs into hundreds of thousands of dollars .  .  .  or the equivalent in euro, pounds, rial, yen, whatever .     By the way, Hank, I'm dressed up and giving financial advice because I was in The Wall Street Journal last week, which means that I am now technically an expert in money .     Okay, Hank, so when I was in high school, I worked at a warehouse stacking stereo equipment of various shapes and sizes into semi trucks .   And the game was that you had to fill the semi trucks as much as possible in order to minimize the number of semi trucks that it took to move the stereo equipment around .  It was basically like manual labor Tetris .      Really, it was more like manual labor Tetris in an un-air-conditioned, 110 degree warehouse with a lot of people yelling at you about how much you suck at Tetris .  Also, I made $7 . 50 an hour, which is by no stretch of the imagination a living wage, unless you have someone paying for your food, clothing, and housing .     Okay, so let's say you make $7 . 50 an hour at your crappy summer job .  That's $247 dollars a week in take-home pay .  You probably work about 10 weeks over the summer; you would work 12, but your parents are making you go on a crappy summer vacation to like, Mount Rushmore or something, and they're gonna fight the entire time about your dad's driving, and there won't be 3G internet half the time, and you won't be able to talk to your friends, and it's gonna suuuuck !     On the other hand, they did pay for your diapers all those years ago .     So, $247 a week over 10 weeks .  I'm not a mathematician, Hank, but I think that's $2,470 over the course of the summer .  'Course, you're going to have to spend some of that money - you gotta put aside some money for Hank's new album, Ellen Hardcastle, you're gonna have to see Deathly Hallows, you're probably gonna go out to dinner with your friends a few times .  .  .  Let's say, you know, 500 bucks .     Okay, so that leaves you with $1,970 .  This is the part where I want you to go to the bank and set up an IRA, which is not an Irish Republican Army, but an Individual Retirement Account .  If you don't live in the US, they call it something different, but there are equivalents from Brazil to Europe, pretty much everywhere .      Hank, I'm a very fancy and highly-trained economist, so I'm not sure this explanation is going to make sense to you, but an IRA is essentially a machine that produces money using nothing but time .  How does it do it ?  Through the magic of compound interest .  So let's say you have a $10 investment that you're somehow making 10% on .  At the end of the year, you've made a dollar in interest, and you have $11 .  At the end of the next year, you get 10% of that $11, which is $1 . 10, and your interest just goes up and up and up and up .     So let's say between the ages of 16 and 19 you're able to put away $1,970 a year into an IRA account, and then you do nothing for 50 years .  We know that the world economy grows, when adjusted for inflation, about 6 . 5% a year over the last 100 years .  That means that at the end of 50 years, when you retire at the age of 69, your $5,910 will have turned into more than $162,000, and yes I am adjusting for inflation .      $162,000 from stupid, getting yelled at, manual labor Tetris !      But realistically, you probably can't put away $2,000 a summer .  I mean, you may have to save for college or you may have to help out your family .  You may have to pre-order 26 copies of The Fault in Our Stars .  So let's say between the ages of 16 and 21 you put away $400 a summer, for a total of $2,000 .  You still have more than $50,000 when you retire .  That means when it's all said and done you didn't make $7 . 50 an hour flipping burgers, you made $125 an hour .       But now let's say I, tottering old man that I am at 33 years old, put away $2,000 today .  I'm still 37 years away from retirement, but what happens if I put away $2,000 ?  It's only worth $20,000 .  That's compound interest at work .  That's why it's more important to save early, to maximize the number of years that the interest can compound, than it is to save lots .      At a lot of banks, you can open up these accounts for, like, $100 .   And the bankers are always happy to help you because they get paid for each account they open .  So there really is a way to turn a crappy summer job into a lot of money, although it's going to take a while .     In short, Hank: you don't have to be a rich person to do the things that rich people do to maximize their income and avoid taxes .      Alright Hank, before I answer the pressing question of whether my suit is all business, there is one outstanding issue: YouTube NextUp Europe .      There are a lot of nerdfighters who made it to the voting round of YouTube NextUp Europe, including Rosianna, who is responsible for the title of The Fault in Our Stars .  I've put links to entries from known nerdfighters in the doobly-doo .  It's really easy - you just click thumbs-up .   But the most important thing is that you watch all the videos and vote for your favorites because you have a chance to shape the future of YouTube, and that's something you should take seriously .  I hope that you do .  I watched every single video and I hope you will, too .     I made a poem .     It's not .  I'll see you on Wednesday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Friday, a couple things - Thing One: In re your last video, it is not an anchoring bias to dismiss the opinions of people who don't like The Mountain Goats, it's just a correct aesthetic judgment .  Hank, there are facts in this world, like the fact that my Sing-a-ma-jig compositions are excellent, but inferior to Mozart .   And here's another fact: The Mountain Goats are a great band, and yes my voice cracked .  I'm angry .   Thing Two: Hank, your video on Wednesday reminded me of my favorite kind of bias: the denomination effect .  The denomination effect shows that people are biased towards spending money in small denominations, like, we're more likely to spend one hundred $1 bills than we are to spend one $100 bill .  It's also showing that across the world, people are biased towards spending coins rather than spending paper money .  Although, not American pennies, of course, because no one spends American pennies, because they're worthless and evil .  You wanna talk about an anchoring bias, Hank, I have an anchoring bias against people who don't hate pennies .  So, Hank, you know why I hate pennies, it's because they cost more than a penny to make, and they also don't work as money, because they don't facilitate the exchange of goods and services, like, try going to a gas station and spending 383 pennies on a gallon of gas .  Lots of countries have eliminated their pennies, like, the Netherlands has no pennies, and you know what happened ?  Nothing .  Inflation didn't go up, charitable contributions didn't go down, pennies are useless !  Also, if we got rid of the penny, it would save the government millions of dollars a year, it's the kind of thing that you would do if you were trying to, say, cut the budget, and you were serious about it, instead of just playing political games .  Right, I'm getting distracted by my hatred of pennies .   The denomination effect does not apply to pennies, but it applies to most coins, you know, coins that have value .  Which brings me to the $1 coin .  Hank, there are like, a billion $1 coins sitting around the United States but no one ever uses them because people like paper money .   But the non-partisan government accountability office recently reported to Congress that if we eliminated the $1 bill, and introduced $1 and $2 coins, we would save $5 . 5 billion over the next thirty years .  Billion with a  " B "  .  This is for two reasons: First, it costs a lot of money to print $1 bills, it now costs 9 . 6 cents per bill, thanks to the rising price of cotton .   And secondly, the average $1 bill is only in circulation for 40 months, whereas the average $1 coin would be in circulation for, like, 30 years .   And we wouldn't even have to mint any new coins, because we already have a billion $1 coins that no one is using, we just need to remove the bills so that people have to use them .   And if we did that, people might be slightly inconvenienced for a while, although they seem to have gotten used to it in Canada and Europe, but aside from saving the federal government $5 billion, the denomination effect tells us that people would also spend more money, and consumer spending is the number one driver of economic growth in America .  In short, Hank, there are a lot of hard choices to make, but the denomination effect reminds us that there are also some easy choices to make, and we aren't making them .   OK, Hank, a couple other things: First, Nerdfighters, thank you so much for continuing to make The Fault in Our Stars a bestseller on amazon and Barnes & Noble, I don't even know what to say about that, but, you're made of awesome .  Also, I want to thank Nerdfighters Julie and Martha for making willallpreordersofthefaultinourstarsbesigned . com, my favorite website EVER .  You'll find a link in the doobly-doo .  It succinctly answers the question I've been asked hundreds of times this week .  Speaking of which, please don't forget that you are deciding which color Sharpie I will use to sign these books .  Nerdfighters, this is serious business, there is a link in the doobly-doo to a poll in Your Pants, is not something that people say about serious business .  No, but really, I do want to get the color right, so vote .  Oh, and don't forget to read the first six chapters of The Great Gatsby by Wednesday, I know you don't come on YouTube for homework, but you just got some .  Hank, I'll see you on Monday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Monday .  Today I want to talk about the first chapter of the Great Gatsby, which is often called the great American novel, not so for its greatness or its novel-ness, but because of its American-ness .  So in the last sixty years the United States has been very successful at exporting ideas, like the idea of inexpensive hamburgers and also the idea of the  " American Dream .  "  You know the American Dream - it's the idea that everyone regardless of standing in life has an equal opportunity in life to become successful, which in the United States generally means rich .  The Great Gatsby is in many ways a novel about the American Dream but it's also more universal than that because one we've done a really good job of exporting the American Dream and also two the American dream was never that uniquely American - it's actually kind of a universal dream these days but one of the charming things about Americans is that we see things that belong to the world and then we're like,  " that's American .  "     Okay, so in the first few pages of the Great Gatsby here's what we know about our faithful narrator Nick Carraway - by the way, get it,  " Care-Away "  ?  One, he used to live in the Midwest, then he moved to New York and now he's back in the Midwest .  Something happened in New York that made him go home .  Two, he's a little bit highfalutin with words .  Nick hints at what made him leave New York and introduces us to Gatsby, the hero of the novel, in so far as Gatsby can be called heroic by saying,  " Gatsby turned out all right in the end, it was what preyed at Gatsby what foul dust floated in the wake of his dreams that temporarily closed out my interests in the abortive sorrows and short-winded elations of men .  "  In short, Gatsby was okay but his dream, the American dream, was a little troubling .     The third thing we know about Nick is that he's rich, and how did he get rich ?  Not by living the American dream, but instead the old-fashioned way: by having a rich ancestor .  We learned this ancestor paid someone off to serve in the civil war and while that poor sap was fighting Nick's ancestor was busy making money   .  So Nick moves to New York to work in the bond business and he gets a house on West Egg, which is one of two almost identical islands, West Egg being the less fashionable one .  Nick lives in kinda a ramshackle house, but both of his neighbors are millionaires, including the titular Great Gatsby about whom we learn almost nothing in chapter one except that he had  "  .  .  . an extraordinary gift for hope .  "      That's the essential fact of Gatsby and also all romantic leads that have come since, like I don't care if you're talking about Edward Cullen or the dude from The Notebook or Miles Halter - all of them share an extraordinary gift for hope .  Right ?  All of them share this creepy belief that if I can just get what I dream of I'll be happy .      But we don't see much of Gatsby in chapter one, instead we meet Tom and Daisy Buchanan .  Daisy is like Nick's second cousin once removed, and he goes over to East Egg, the fashionable place, where they live, in order to have, like, the worst dinner ever .  So Daisy Buchanan is like a professional pretty person and Tom Buchanan is a former football player who Fitzgerald describes perfectly by saying he was one of those men who achieves such an acute, limited excellence at twenty-one that everything afterwards savors of anticlimax   .  The Buchanans are also crazy rich, like polo pony rich .  You'll be surprised to learn how they got rich, unless you guessed that it was not by living the American dream .  Also, take note of this: their house ?  Golden .      Right, so Nick was over there to meet Daisy and Tom and there's also this rather hot girl there named Jordan Baker .  They just have a horrible dinner - Daisy is aggressively vapid, midway through dinner Tom goes on this horrible racist rant .  He says,  " The idea is that we're Nordics and we've produced all the things that make a civilization .  "  Meanwhile they haven't produced anything !  They're at a dinner where they didn't make the food they're eating !  They don't even light their own freaking candles !      That, Alanis Morissette, more than rain on your wedding day or ten thousand spoons when all you need is a knife, is irony .   But then, everything changes when the phone rings .  Daisy and Tom leave, Jordan Baker explains to Nick that Tom has some woman in New York, and then you start to realize that maybe these people who have it all, don't .     A little bit later in a conversation with Nick, Daisy says one of the most interesting things in the book .  Daisy wakes up after giving birth and Tom has left and looks at her daughter and says,  " I hope she'll be a fool - that's the best thing a girl can be in this world, a beautiful little fool .  "  She's trying to be a beautiful little fool because the only way she can see to get through life .     One of the most interesting things about this chapter is that we are on fashionable east egg, in the center of the world, with the richest people on earth and their polo ponies and no one is having any fun .     Nick leaves the awful dinner and he goes home and at the end of chapter one we catch our first glimpse of the Great Gatsby .  He's standing outside his house, arms stretched in the night, looking in the distance, and Nick follows his gaze and sees out over the bay a single green light .  That green light has become one of the most important metaphors in American literature, so watch out for it as you keep reading .      One other thing, about midway through the chapter Daisy tells the story about how her butler used to work as a silver polisher for a big family in New York, and he would polish silver morning, noon, and night and eventually he had to quit because the stinky carcinogens ruined his nose .     If the whole first chapter is about how wealth consumes the rich that little anecdote is a reminder that wealth consumes the poor as well .  So here's your first non-rhetorical question, do you think the way The Great Gatsby portrays luxury and wealth and the American dream accurately reflects the truth about those things, I mean, both in the jazz age, when the book is set, and today ?     You'll find a link in the dooblydoo to a thread in YourPants to continue the conversation .  Hank, I'll see you on Wednesday .                 
Good Morning Hank, it's Friday .  It's also 117 thousand degrees outside, Celsius, and like a boss, I decided to go for a walk .   Do you know what the most common irrigated crop in the United States is ?   Turf Grass !  Do you know there's three times more irrigated turf grass .  .  .  and you know, I can't do this, it's too hot !  It is hotter than Kim Jong-il would be if he died and went to hell .   Yet more evidence, Hank, that outside is overrated .   Right so there's three times more irrigated turf grass in the United States than there is corn, but more importantly, almost all of the water that we irrigate turf grass with is potable .   About 30% of the overall drinking water supply in America goes to feed grass .  Hank, it seems to me that the America front lawn is the best possible example of how what is called 'status quo bias' can lead to like, complete insanity .  I mean, obviously front lawns are a terrible idea .  I mean Hank, what do all of these front lawns have in common ?  No one is using them !   They're just sitting there, sucking four billion gallons of drinking water every frakkin' day .  Also, in order to maintain this completely unnatural plant monoculture, we use seventy million pounds of pesticides every year on our grass .  Grass, which I will remind you, does not feed us .   I'm sorry Hank, but it is very hot and just like characters in Victorian novels, the temperature reflects my temperament .  Seventy million pounds of pesticides a year, it's ridiculous, and the most ridiculous part is that I'm out there with them, trying to make sure that my grass looks OK so my neighbors don't get mad at me .   Now Hank, there are some advantages to lawns - grass turns carbon dioxide into oxygen  , and there's some soil erosion benefits    So how did we end up with the disaster that is the front lawn ?  The British .  That's right Hank, we threw off their colonial yoke and said no to taxation without representation but they got us on the lawns .   The lawn is a British invention but the idea isn't as crazy in Britain, because as you know, it rains all the freakin' time .   So they don't have to pump four billion gallons of drinking water every day into their lawns - on the down side they never get to see the sun, also James Murdoch .   So Hank, we're all biased toward the status quo, not to beat a dead horse, but that's the only reason we still have pennies, like, if somebody tried to introduce a coin that was worth a thousandth of a dollar today, people would be like  " That's insane !  "  .  Well, it's equally insane to have a coin that's worth a hundredth of a dollar, but since it already exists, we're all OK with it .   So Hank, if you could close your eyes and imagine a world in which there's a huge vegetable garden in the front of every home in suburban America, and there's a multi-billion dollar industry of people taking care of these vegetable gardens, and watering them, and helping you to harvest the crops .  Your food costs go down, you have more vegetables in your diet, we use less oil and gas to transport food .   But then, one day, you decide to rip up your vegetable garden and become the first person in your neighborhood to lay down turf grass .   Your neighbors are going to come over and be like  " Hey, what's the new thing ?  "  and you'll be like  " That's turf grass !  "  and they'll be like  " Great !  Uh, what do you cook it with ?  "  and you're like  " No, you don't eat it .  "  In short, Hank, your neighbors are going to think you're crazy, partly because they have status quo bias toward this world in which all front yards are composed of vegetable gardens, and partly because they're right .    But Hank, the weirdest thing about status quo bias is that it doesn't actually preserve the status quo .  Over the last 40 years, American lawns have gotten bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger .  We're trying to preserve the status quo and we have an idea in our head, that's fueled by advertising, that lawns should be massive .  I know this, Hank, because it happened to me .  When we moved to Indianapolis, I was like  " Sarah, we gotta get a huge yard .  I wanna riding lawn mower !  "  and she was like  " You are not going to enjoy mowing the lawn .  "  and I was like  " I'm gonna love mowing the lawn !  "  .   Yeah, so long story short, the heat index is 114 degrees, and I have to go mow the lawn .   Hank, I'll see you on Monday .                 
" Good morning, Hank, it's Friday !  "   I think that sets a  " Good morning Hank "  record .   So I remember standing on stage with you right before the doors opened for VidCon 2011 and thinking that I could not imagine what all those chairs would look like with people in them .    And then there were people in them .   Hank, I want to thank you for organizing another amazing VidCon .  From brief moments of rest on VidCon beanbags to watching Charlieissocoollike play Rock Band, from meeting the actual Yosemite Bear to watching Philip DeFranco play Ninja Nerds with meTonyv, it was just awesome .   And Hank, that's not even to mention the Gregory Brothers proving that just because you use auto tune doesn't mean you gotta .    But Hank, I want to focus on just a couple moments .  First, Meghan Tonjes performing on the main stage .  Hank, you and Alan brought Meghan to DFTBA records before she was on Ellen, before she was mad-famous, and now her first album is coming out and it's so beautiful and I almost started crying listening to her play on that couch .      Another moment, people that night were so psyched to hear you play at the concert that I briefly forgot that you are a huge nerd, but then I was able to call to mind these pictures, which .  .  .  reminded me .  Oh, the nerdmanity .   But seriously, Hank, every time for the rest of my life anyone whines about the intellectually disengaged tastes of teenagers these days, I will play them this .      That is three thousand people singing a song about quarks, which are a fundamental constituent of matter .  How can you not feel hopeful about this world ?   And then Driftless Pony Club, another band that you and Alan signed to your record label, got on stage and rocked .  These guys have been in a band for ten years, Hank, and for the first time in their lives, there were thousands of people singing the lyrics to their songs back to them .  How awesome is that ?   Okay, one last moment from VidCon .  George Watsky .  I made Watsky sign a waiver before he did this, but at the end of one of his brilliant poems, he Watsky dove head-first into the crowd .  They caught him, of course, because that's the thing about the YouTube community: they always catch you .   Later in an interview, Watsky called you his guardian angel, because you helped him out a lot when he was first growing on YouTube .   And that made me think about all the stuff you do, Hank .  Nerdfighting, sharing music that you love through DFTBA Records, helping YouTubers, planning conferences .  Hank, you've built a career out of making places where people can fall and get caught .  You build communities for a living .  I love that .  I love you .  Happy belated Esther Day .  I'll see you on Monday .                       
Good morning Hank; it's Wednesday .  We seem to have found ourselves in something of a debt crisis and by  " we "  I don't mean, like, the VlogBrothers; I mean, like .  .  . , the planet .      I've already talked about sovereign debt problems in Europe .  Today I want to talk about the purported American debt crisis .      But first, let me define a few terms .  There are basically two kinds of debt .  Unsecured debt is debt that you promise to pay back but, uh, you know I have to take your word for it .      And then there's collateralized debt .  Like a mortgage which is debt that you promise to pay back, and if you don't pay it back, I get your house .     Generally, collateralized debt is safer than unsecured debt which is why, like, mortgages tend to be less expensive than credit cards .  Although, as we have lately learned, collateralized debt is not always a good investment .     Another term: Gross domestic product is a measure of, like, the total annual economic output of a country .     In 2010, the GDP of the United States was about $14 . 6 trillion .  That's a big number !  Unfortunately, our total debt obligations are currently also $14 . 6 trillion .     This means our debt-to-GDP ratio is about 100%, which could be worse .    It's not good .     So, Hank, traditionally when governments have a debt-to-GDP ratio over 90% they tend to -- I mean not always -- but they tend to default on that debt, like they tend to go bankrupt .     Basically, the government tells its lenders  " We promised we would pay you back but we were lying; sorry .  Life is hard and full of disappointment .  Here's a Toostie Pop .  Just kidding; there are no Toostie Pops .  "     This is obviously a bad thing for the lenders, but it's also a bad thing for the government, because once you've proven you're the kind of country that occasionally goes bankrupt, people are reluctant to lend you money at low interest rates .      But it still happens all the time .  In the last few centuries, hundreds of governments have defaulted on their debt obligations .   And it doesn't matter if the currency is backed by gold or silver or promises .  It doesn't matter: All sovereign debt is essentially unsecured debt .     If you loan the government money by purchasing a Treasury bond, they don't have a house to pay you back with, and the price of gold and silver are so far removed from their value as commodities that they don't work as currency backers either .     Many countries on the gold standard have defaulted on their debt .  There is only one thing backing currency in this world and that is trust .     Okay, side note: In order to help investors know whether something is credit-worthy, they are these independent, nonpartisan credit-rating agencies, like Standard & Poor's .      They rate debt from AAA on down and generally, just like individuals, the better your credit score, the cheaper your debt .  That's why Australia pays 4% for 10-year government bonds and Greece pays 15% .  Sorry, Greece .     So the US is well above that 90% debt-to-GDP ratio that sets off alarm bells and Congress just barely -- in the stupidest game of  " Chicken "  ever -- managed not to default on our debt .     So the rating agency Standard & Poor's was, like,  " You know, for the first time in US history, it's time to downgrade their debt from AAA to AA+ .  "     Here's what you'd except to happen: Our debt, being less secure, becomes much more expensive .      This could be disastrous, because as your debt gets more expensive, you need more money to service it .  So you have to raise taxes and cut spending, which can slow the economy and decrease government revenue .      And then, to make up the shortfall, you have to acquire ever more expensive debt until you go bankrupt .      But here's the thing, Hank: That's not what's happening in the United States .     In the days since Standard & Poor's downgraded our credit rating, our debt hasn't gotten more expensive; it's gotten cheaper .      In fact, Hank, the yield on some Treasury bills is so low that the United States is essentially getting paid to borrow money .     Why ?  A few reasons .  First, the whole world economy is so volatile right now that even if US debt is less safe than it used to be, it still seems more safe than anything else .      Two: Our so called  " debt crisis "  would almost completely be solved by just not extending the Bush tax cuts, which will happen if Congress does nothing .   And, as you may have noticed, Congress is awesome as doing nothing .     Three: The whole world is invested in the American economy .  Hank, by some estimates, half of the American money in circulation is in circulation outside the US .      And lastly, at least for the time being, it's really important to countries that make stuff, like China, that countries that consume stuff, like the United States, keep consuming .     So even though our debt's been downgraded, it's still much cheaper than lots of countries with AAA ratings .     Hank, the fact that the dollar remains the default currency of the world and that people still trust the United States to pay its debts is worth trillions of dollars to us annually .     Hank, that's probably not going to go away anytime soon, but in the long run every time we show an inability to get things done politically or economically, we chip away at the world's faith in us .     Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's - wait, what day is it ?  Oh !  I can just look at my calendar !  It's Friday, August 26th !  Thank you so much ! It's Question Friday, the day that I answer real questions from real nerdfighters .  Let's get right to it !  " Do you ever get frustrated being a muggle ?  " How do you know I'm a muggle ?  " Favorite essay you have ever read ?  " The Crack-Up by F .  Scott Fitzgerald .  " Why hasn't my boyfriend kissed me, even though we've been going for almost five months ?  " Wait .  Going ?  Going where ?  Certainly not to first base .  Anybody ?  Ah ?  Base jokes ?  Is that still a thing ? Listen up, anonymous young twitter user !  You are a powerful young woman !  Kissing is not something that happens /to/ you, it's something that happens /with/ you .  So talk to your boyfriend, with whom you have been going lo these five months, and be honest with him .  " How goes the TFIOS signing ?  " Uh, this somewhat under-represents my progress .  I'm at about thirty-five thousand, although I am temporarily out of red Sharpies .  I have a long way to go .  " How many Sharpies have you gone through so far ?  " Like about this many .   That's gonna take a while to clean up .  " Is it too late to pre-order a signed copy ?  " No, all pre-orders of The Fault in Our Stars will be signed .  In fact, the whole first printing is being signed, which means all the books that go out to book stores are being signed too .  I just don't know how fast they're gonna sell out, so I can only, like, absolutely guarantee that the pre-orders will be signed .  "  But will you sign the ones from Amazon UK ?  " Yes .  " Does it have to be pre-ordered from-- " Yeah, no, all pre-orders will be signed .  " Can we pre-order the book from somewhere like-- " Yes .  " England ?  " Yes !  " Canada ?  " Yes !  It doesn't matter where you live or where you pre-order it or whether you are wearing pants at the time of ordering; all pre-orders will be signed !  Haghhhh .  Let's move on .  " What Hogwarts house would you be in ?  Also, what is the capital of Luxembourg ?  " I'm kind of a Ravenpuff and Luxembourg .   " Ravenpuff Luxembourg "  would be a great Pottermore name .  " What's your favorite type of hat ?  " My people-hunting hat .  " How much do you love kittens ?  " I love kittens, like, this much .  I'm not a big kitten-person .  " Bacon or cake ?  " Cakon !  " Just curious, what is your opinion of anime and manga ?  I also love that you actual say manga right .  " First, thank you for noticing my excellent pronunciation of manga .  Second, I love anime and manga .  " Describe your favorite paradox .  " Okay so you want to walk through a doorway, but before you can walk through that doorway you have to walk half way to the door .  Before you can do that you have to walk half way to the half-way point, etc .  Basically you have to traverse infinity to go anywhere .  I don't see how you're ever going to get through the door .  That's called Zeno's paradox .  It's very important to me .  " Do you have a Tumblr ?  " Do I ?  fishingboatproceeds . tumblr . com .  Link in the dooblydoo .  " Can you do Question Tuesday with peanut butter face ?  " Briefly .  " What works of yours are you most proud of ?  " I'm fairly proud of my career as a professional person who puts peanut butter on his face .  " Hi ?  " Hi !  " Favorite punctuation mark ?  " Interrobang ?  !  " Elmo or Grover ?  " Right, so every morning I wake up with a song in my head, and for years it was always some wonderful song like by the Mountain Goats or Hank Green or something .   But lately it's been the same song every morning:  " Elmo has two ducks .  Quack quack .  Two birds of a-- "  Aaaaaaaagggghh !  Grover .  " How do you feel about Scotland's national animal ? Oh you mean the bagpipes ?  I love bagpipes !  What do you mean it's not an animal ?  Sure it's an animal .  It responds to stimulus .  It can reproduce .  It can't ?  What are all those, like, holes and pointy things for then ?  Googling Scotland's national ani--Unicorns ?  !  I hate them !  " Does Sarah have any input into your writing process ?  Have any of her ideas ever made it into your stories ?  " Yeah, tons of stuff .  From  " imagining the future is a kind of nostalgia, "  in  " Looking for Alaska, "  to all the pranks in  " Paper Towns, "  and she contributed hugely to  " The Fault in Our Stars .  "  " What was the original title of  " Looking for Alaska ?  " I had lots of titles:  " Misremembering Alaska, "   " The Great Perhaps .  "  For a long time I wanted to call it,  " Warm Malt Liquor: A Novel .  "  " I was sorted as a Hufflepuff on Pottermore .  Can you console me ?  " Console you ?  That you're joining the house of Helga Hufflepuff and Tonks ?  I'm not going to console you .  I'll congratulate you !  " Did you ever own a diary ?  " Yeah I maintained one periodically from 1984 to 1988 .  It contained such memorable entries as,  " Today was a good day .  My brother got sick .  " Hank, I'll see you on Monday .  
Good morning, Hank; it's Wednesday August 31st .  Apparently it's  " Talk to People Other Than Your Brother "  week .  My shirt matches the boxes behind me -- I'm gonna change .    Yeah, I think that's better .  Although I wonder if we could take it down a button .  .  .  No . So, Hank, I want to address the people who have recently ended or will soon end their formal education and enter what is known as the  " real world .  " Okay, the first thing that you'll notice upon entering the real world is that it is neither more or less real than any of the previous worlds you have encountered .   But you'll likely notice that the real world does have this interesting mix of, like, crushing monotony and paralyzing terror .   Like there's the crushing monotony of waking up at the same time, sitting in the same traffic, going to the same job, and then coming home to pay the same bills with your only distractions being, like, television and video games and YouTube .   But there's also the constant paralyzing terror of knowing that if you somehow screw up sitting in traffic or working at your job or paying your rent, you will be, like, homeless and hungry and alone .  This is not to worry you or anything -- I'm just telling you how it feels for a lot of people .  I will say that adulthood gets much, much better . Speaking of which: Last night my son puked on my face .  Like, not on my shirt or on my shoulder or something, but on my actual, like, sensory organs .  Babies do this all the time !  They're like little puke factories .   But to put this in context: even though a baby threw up on my face last night and I slept for like two hours, I would still rank last night as better than almost every night of the first two years after I graduated from college . So it does get better; I promise .  I know the crushing monotony and paralyzing terror can be a little bit overwhelming .  Plus there's like a twenty percent chance that you're unemployed, and, like, a one hundred percent chance that you're underemployed .  Like unless you're in a successful Time Lord rock band, you're probably not doing what you want to do everyday .  How are you going to solve these problems ?  Two ways .  Number one: Time .  These things take time .  Number two: You're going to get an Ilene . So for a few months after I graduated from college I worked as a student chaplain at a children's hospital, then I bumped around a little until I got a job at Booklist magazine, where ninety percent of my job was typing ten-digit codes into a database .  Kind of crushing monotony, to be honest with you .   But I was surrounded by books and I had these amazing co-workers, most of whom were much older than I was .   And they helped me to do all kinds of grown-up things, like opening a checking account and not crying so much when I would get dumped   .   But one of these colleagues at Booklist was a woman named Ilene Cooper, who's a writer .  Ilene has published more than twenty books for children: from a picture book about the golden rule to a biography of JFK to a new novel called Angel In My Pocket that's just absolutely delicious . One day I went into her office and I said,  " I would like to take you out to lunch because I am also a writer and there is this book that I would like to write and it's going to be real good .  "  She said okay and we went to the Cheesecake Factory, and I was like,  " I have an idea for a book !  It's set at a boarding school and in the middle this thing happens and then at the end .  .  .  there's an ending .  "   And Ilene said,  " That sounds great .  " Finally, early in 2002, I brought Ilene forty single-spaced pages .   And for the next two years she worked with me to turn those forty single-spaced pages into a novel that would eventually become Looking for Alaska .  The only reason Looking for Alaska exists; the only reason I have a job writing books; the only reason there's a Brotherhood 2 . 0 or Nerdfighteria, is Ilene . Whoever you are, to get through the period of crushing monotony and paralyzing terror, you need an Ilene .   And it can't be me, because for one thing I'm already trying to be an Ilene for a bunch of people .  Like Ransom Riggs, author of Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children .  I was kind of a little bit of an Ilene for him .  Not as much as an Ilene as Ilene is, but a little . So that's my advice for navigating the treacherous waters of life after school: find someone doing something you want to do better than you can do it, and listen to them .  And you should really check out Ilene's book Angel In My Pocket for the middle-grade reader in your life -- there is a link in the doobly-doo .  It's great .  Not the link, the book .  The link is just a regular link . I've signed forty two thousand copies of your books !   And I am going to continue, but first I have to go to the doctor because my hand isn't working right and I've got to get occupational therapy .  I wish I were making that up . Hank, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank; it's Wednesday, September 7th .   Today, I'm going to introduce you to everything I find interesting about The Great Gatsby without massive spoilers .  It's going to take a few minutes, but I'm going to go as quickly as I can because life is fleeting .  .  .  is one of the themes of The Great Gatsby .   So, right at the beginning of the second chapter of Gatsby, we get two of the great metaphors in American literature .  First: the Valley of Ashes .  The narrator, Nick, writes about this huge valley of ashes outside of Manhattan .  This was real, and in 1922 there was this, like, ever-growing depository of the burned waste of people who lived in and around New York .   And in the novel, George Wilson, this gas-station owner, lives in the Valley of Ashes with his wife, Myrtle, with whom Tom Buchanan is having an affair .   Anyone who's even read five pages of the Great Gatsby will no doubt remember Tom Buchanan as one of the world's least likable people .  Yeah, so right there in the Valley of Ashes there are also the eyes of Doctor T . J .  Eckleburg, whose irises are like one yard high .  They're just these disembodied, unblinking eyes that see everything below them .  Like, they don't have arms to catch you or legs to chase you down; they can't punish you or kill you, but Dr .  T . J .  Eckleburg's eyes see everything .   But more of that in a minute .   So Tom and his mistress and her sister and Nick and this random other couple end up in an apartment in New York, just getting drunk and utilizing servants and creating more ashes for the valley and generally having, like, the worst time ever .   One of the crazy things about The Great Gatsby is there's always some debaucherous party going on, and no one is ever having any fun .  Like, everybody in that room just wants more money and more class, and they wanna, like, find a way to get a better life, except for Tom Buchanan who has what they all want except that Tom Buchanan is, like, an unbearable ass-face .  Tom Buchanan makes Paris Hilton look, like, charming and grounded .    And that's one of the criticisms you hear about The Great Gatsby: that no one in the book is likable .  I don't think that's fair to Gatsby, or to Nick and to a certain extent I don't think it's fair to Daisy, but more importantly I don't know where people got the idea that characters in books are supposed to be likable .  Books are not in the business of creating merely likable characters with whom you can have some simple identification .  Books are in the business of creating great stories that make your brain go all like ahhbdgbdmerhbergurhbudgerbudbaaah .  Sorry, I spend all my time with a baby .   Right, so shortly after that horrible party, we go to an awesome party at Gatsby's house .  I mean, there's still a lot of stuff being created for the Valley of Ashes, but at least Gatsby's party has Gatsby, and even though Gatsby has this incredibly annoying habit of saying  " old sport "  all the time as a way of trying to sound upper-crusty, he's a pretty charming guy: he has a smile that makes you feel that he is  " irresistibly prejudiced in your favor, "  to quote Nick .    But the one thing we know about Gatsby for much of the book is that no one knows anything about him .  Like, there's talk that he might be a bootlegger or a killer or own a chain of drug stores; no one really seems to know even though everyone's at his parties, drinking his booze, running around his mansion .   I should mention that the first party at Gatsby's house also contains the greatest drunk driving scene in the history of American literature in which a drunk guy gets in an accident like three seconds after getting in his car, and even though the wheel has fallen off the car, he keeps trying to drive it .   And I think, at least in the novel, that had become the American Dream by the 1920's .  The dream was to, you know, have a leisurely and debaucherous life where you had enough money to buy fancy new cars and enough whiskey to crash them .   But we learn pretty quickly that Gatsby isn't like the people who go to his parties .  He hasn't acquired, like, wealth and social status so that he can enjoy them; he doesn't drink; and, as he repeatedly points out to Nick, he's never even used his own pool .  He's worked to get this money and build this social status because he is in love with a woman who lives across the bay, whose dock has a green light at the end of it .   And that woman is Daisy Buchanan, Tom Buchanan's wife .   Daisy and Gatsby had fallen in love years before, but then Gatsby went off to war and she got married and now she lives across the bay and the green light and he just wants to reach it .  So, he asks Nick to manufacture a reunion .  All right, and at that reunion everything is yellow .  Like, Gatsby's car is yellow, and Gatsby's tie is yellow, and Daisy Buchanan's dress buttons are yellow .  At one point Nick -- who's third-wheeling it big-time at this reunion -- describes the smell of flowers as  " pale gold .  "  It's not an accident .   In this very chapter Nick refers to the green light at the end of Daisy's dock that Gatsby's always looking out at and reaching for as an  " enchanted object .  "   And that seems to be a reasonably good definition of symbolism .  Symbols are enchanted objects, and yellow or gold is an enchanted color in this novel .   But not just in this novel, but also, like, in our lives, like  " golden opportunities, "  or a  " golden age, "  or  " golden youth .  "  God knows the characters in this novel aren't the first people to ever conflate wealth and beauty .   But one of the interesting questions in The Great Gatsby is whether Gatsby really loves Daisy or if he loves her because she's golden, you know ?  Because, as he once famously says, her voice is  " full of money .  "  Gatsby hasn't come by his money honestly .  He has no class or family background .  Tom Buchanan calls him,  " Mr .  Nobody From Nowhere .  "   And maybe Gatsby can never be Mr .  Somebody From Somewhere, but Daisy Buchanan would certainly help with her family connections and her legitimate money .   We see this too when the book flashes back to the Midwest, when Gatsby and Daisy first fall in love .  Is Gatsby falling in love with Daisy or with her family's mansion ?   But regardless, before Daisy and Gatsby can run off into the golden sunset, there is the small matter of her being married to Tom .    And the fascinating thing is that by the novel's climax, it's not enough to Gatsby that Daisy loves him .  He needs Daisy to say,  " I never loved Tom .  I only ever loved you .  "  Because for Gatsby, it's not enough to get Daisy back .  He has to get the feeling he first had when they fell in love back, that feeling of purity and innocence .  He has to reclaim his past .    And that dream- or more specifically the foul dust that trails in the wake of it- is more than about two characters in a novel; it is the American dream and the world's dream .   There will never be enough money and fame and love for us in this world because every time we get what we thought we wanted, we realize that we want more because what we really want is to go back in time to some place when we felt safe, some time before we discovered violence and corruption, when we were happy and pure and innocent .   We want to go to the Golden Age .   But for Gatsby, the relentless pursuit of that dream leads to only more violence and corruption until there's this penultimate moment of violence that is witnessed by the eyes of Dr .  T . J .  Eckleburg .   And then Gatsby finally gets to use his pool .   Hank, the last chapter of The Great Gatsby is, to me, one of the saddest passages in American literature .  It shows how muddied innocence and guilt are, and it shows the vast and intractable unfairness of the society that was supposedly founded on equality .   At one point Nick recalls people who would go to those great parties and sneer most bitterly at Gatsby on the courage of Gatsby's liquor .  Let me submit to you that those of us who would sneer at Gatsby do so on the courage of his liquor because we all share his ambition .   We all believe in that green light that has long eluded us, that if we can only,  " run faster, stretch out our arms farther .   .   .   .  And then one fine morning-- "   And still the foul dust trails in the wake of those dreams .   Hank, I have two non-rhetorical questions for you today which we must discuss here in comments because Your Pants have been hacked: First, to what extent do you think Gatsby is a hero ?  I mean I know he's the titular character of the novel, but to what extent do you think that his quest is heroic ?   And secondly, is your quest heroic ?   Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Monday .  Today I'm going to talk about credit crunches, why they're so evil and how you, and I, and all of nerdfighteria could dramatically decrease world suck if we just became better bankers .   I'm so bad at banking !  Did I say 'baking' or 'banking' ?  I don't know, I'm bad at both .   OK, so Hank, all the numbers in this example are going to be made up to make the math easier for me because I'm bad at math, but say I have a fantastic business idea .  Like, say I have a business idea to make posters that say 'Keep Calm and DFTBA' .   It's important to note that this idea, if it's a good idea, isn't just good for me .  Like, I don't want to brag or anything, but if my business idea is successful, then a number of people's jobs will kind of, partly, depend on it .   Right, there's the nerdfighter who made the poster design, but there's also the people who make the poster paper, the people who print posters, the people who distribute and ship posters .  .  .     So I got a great idea, but I have a problem, which is that I have a baby, and I have to take all the money that I make and turn it into food, which then he turns into poop .  Essentially all my money is getting pooped out, so how am I going to get my posters ?   I'm going to go to a place with money, specifically, a bank, and I'm gonna be like,  " Listen, I want a hundred dollars so I can print these posters .  They're gonna be a big hit, everybody's gonna love 'em .  "  Then the bank'll take a hard look at me, appreciate my rugged good looks, and agree with me that people like to be reminded to keep calm and not forget to be awesome, and they'll be like,  " Alright, here's a hundred bucks .  "   So I get my posters printed, I sell them, say I have two hundred dollars, then I have to give a hundred dollars plus interest back to the bank, then I've gotta pay my baby to poop .  Then I gotta pay the rent, and buy a twenty-four dollar iPhone case, and lo and behold, I don't have another hundred dollars to spend on posters .   So I go back to the bank, and I'm like,  " Hey, it's me, the ruggedly handsome guy with the poster idea .  I need another hundred bucks so I can sell more posters .  "   And they're like,  " So-rry .  "   And I'm like,  " What ?  It's me !  Do you not remember the poster ?  Do I need to unbutton a button for you ?  "   And they're like,  " No, sorry, it's just there's a credit crunch, we're not really loaning money right now .  "   Why do banks do this ?  Because in times of economic panic, they have to hold on to a much larger percentage of their deposits in order to prevent, like, bank runs .  So essentially, we all sit on a big pile of capital that we could be investing in good ideas, like my poster company that would create jobs .   Hank, I'm pretty worried there's a credit crunch coming, but I am not as worried about you, or me, or the posters as I am about the hundreds of millions of people who have emerged from poverty in the last forty years .   Because entrepreneurs in the developing world depend much more than we do on low interest loans to buy the things that they need to make the things that they sell .  To buy spare parts for taxis, or animals for agriculture, or cosmetics that they sell in local stores, or food for neighborhood restaurants .  .  .   Which brings me to kiva . org, the website that allows you, or me, or anyone to be a banker for entrepreneurs in the developing world .  You pick the entrepreneurs you wanna work with, from around the world, and then you loan them money, and there is a 98 . 5% chance that they pay you back .  Whereupon you can re-loan that money forever, or take it out at some point, if you want .    And, admittedly, you don't make any interest on this deal, but as you may have noticed, you also don't make any interest in regular banking these days .  Anyway, Hank, I started loaning to Kiva in 2007, I've had a one hundred percent payback rate, but I logged on yesterday to find that I had nine hundred and thirteen dollars that I wasn't loaning to anyone .   In short, Hank, I had become that scared banker who refuses to invest in good ideas .  So I re-loaned my money to a bunch of entrepreneurs, I also joined the Kiva Nerdfighters group  , which is pretty amazing, like, if you scroll down there, you'll see that we've loaned more than thirty-three thousand dollars .   But I think we can do even better, so Hank, nerdfighters, I encourage you to check out the Kiva . org Nerdfighter group, you can join just by clicking 'Join' .  You can loan as little as twenty-five dollars, like I said before, they pay you back 98 . 5 percent of the time, but the most exciting thing is that you get to be an awesome banker .  There's a phrase you don't hear much anymore .  You get to facilitate sustainable economic growth in the developing world .   So yeah, Hank, bankers can reduce world suck .   And we can be bankers !  The truth resists simplicity .  Don't forget to be awesome, I'll see you on Wednesday .   Oh, and P . S . , those posters, not just a rhetorical gambit, they're actually for sale .  So if you want a poster, or if you want to indirectly purchase some baby poop, head on over to dftba . com .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Wednesday, puff levels are high .  Hank, as you can tell from the TFIOS-ometer I've made quite a bit of progress .  I am now over 80,000 copies which would be great, except I got a call a couple days ago from my publisher saying that I had to get up here to 150,000 copies by November 3rd . So basically, I have to sign between 3 and 4,000 copies a day, which takes between 9 and 12 hours, which is pretty time-consuming, so I apologize, but my videos are gonna suck for the next month .  .  .  and, jump cut . By the way Hank, before I descend deeper into signing madness, let me tell you a cute story .  So the other day, I went out into the backyard with Henry and I was showing him like, flowers, and our tomatoes, and I was explaining to him about like, sunlight and pollen and bees and the magic of it all, and then he looked at me and he said,  " TV on ?  " I don't watch a lot of TV with Henry although lately because of the signing I've had to watch some, but the best part about when he watches TV is that he always walks up to the TV and he pokes it, because he thinks it's an iPad . Right, but about signing, walk with me .  So let me give you a quick tour of the situation .  Ow !  Right, so this is the approximate number of boxes I have to sign .   And these are empty boxes, you'll see their contents in a moment .   And this is the current sad pile of blue guys and or Sing-a-ma-jigs - I will put you guys back in the background when I'm finished .  And then I actually sign the books up here using a Sharpie with this thing that my occupational therapist Alan gave me .  By the way, shout-out to my occupational therapist, I think I have the weirdest occupation he's ever therap-ed, but he's been very nice about it .  And yes, Hank, I know the lighting's bad, I told you my videos are going to be bad until this is over .  Over here we have large stacks of signed sheets .   And then here tens of thousands of more signed sheets, waiting to be boxed, including one that's Yeti'd . So Hank, the Yeti's kind enough to sit with me and watch TV at night while I sign but she gets bored, so sometimes she Yetis them .  There's Jumping Yeti, there's the Yeti standing atop Mount J, a Yeti clinging to the scribble, and then sometimes there's just a Yeti hanging out at the bottom .  And here's my bag full of used Sharpies .  I've got about 300 used Sharpies, Hank, and I'm only just more than halfway done .  A guy could freak out about it, you know, but I try not to freak out, I just try to like, you know, keep calm and DFTBA .  .  .  there's a chili stain there, sorry about that .  I've been wearing this shirt for a few days, I'm not gonna lie to you Hank, I'm not taking a whole lot of showers right now . I changed, because I realized that we had chili over the weekend .  So Hank, long story short, for the next month or so, puff levels may be high, I may seem or even be crazy, my videos might suck, but I am going to sign every copy of The Fault in Our Stars ! Nerdfighters, thank you for giving me such a wonderful problem .  By the way, if you're wondering what my hands are doing - WHAAAT ?  I'm always signing !  Those aren't even bad .  I should sign without looking more often . Hank, by the way, great joke to the CERN physicist when he was like  " What's keeping you from falling to the center of the Earth ?  "  and you were like  " my chair !  " I'll see you on Friday . Wait, one more thing !  The iPhone 4S is just like the iPhone 4 .  No, we have a chance to be part of a feature film being made by my friend Amy Cross-Rosenthal, my long-time collaborator who's doing The Beckoning of Lovely, and if you don't know what that is it's a thing where Amy and other people beckon lovely into the world . Amy wants people from all over the world to design their own greetings based on The Beckoning of Lovely anagram,  " evoking bent echo folly "  .  So for example, here's one that Amy made:Man:  " Howdy !  " Amy:  " Howdy !  " Man:  " How are you ?  " Amy:  " How are you ?  " Both:  " Oh, so lovely to be seeing you !  "  And here's one that my friend Stan and I made . John and Stan:  " Hey there !  " You can click on my face and/or puff to go to a video that shows you how to participate and you can learn more about The Beckoning of Lovely which is an amazing, beautiful, wonderful project that's been going on for three years now .  Okay, I really gotta go sign now .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Monday .  Progress ! Okay Hank, today is the last day I can make meaningful changes to The Fault in Our Stars and no offense to you but I don't wanna spend the day with you, I wanna spend time with the book because it's our last day together . Alright, hold on I gotta go talk to the Medical Librarians of Indiana . I'm only gonna videotape a few things, just ignore it .  I've lived with this thing for four years now, um, hi Hank . I just made a good joke about, I'm on steroids, to sign all the books, and I don't know if I can get in the Guinness Book of World Records because it's like technically performance enhanced signing .  It was funnier the first time . That was fun .  Medical Librarians are so nice, Hank .  Okay Hank I have to go back to The Fault in Our Stars but I'm not leaving you high and dry, instead I'm giving you a Truth or Fail, specifically one about animal mating, so .  .  .  that's nice of me .  The TFioS-ometer is gonna go down a little bit because I filmed this in the past, but yeah, enjoy . So Hank, I will see you on Wednesday but now I will test your knowledge of animal mating with a Truth or Fail . Hello and welcome to Truth or Fail the YouTube game show .  Today we're gonna do it like they do it on the Discovery Channel and talk about animals, and their mating habits . Fact 1: Giraffes .  Just kidding there will be no giraffes .  The rules here are simple I give you two purported facts; you either click on the true one or you fail .  It's just like a regular game show except instead of playing for prizes you are playing primarily to learn things that you wish you could forget about animal mating .  However one person chosen at random who finishes the game will receive a signed copy of one of my books, so, wooooo . Alright, let's get right to it, here are your first set of facts .  Fact 1: The desert grassland whiptail lizard is a species of clones .  The population is entirely female and they self fertilize their own eggs so each offspring is a clone of the original . Or Fact 2: The male red sided gardener snake is so rare that females much copulate with any males they come across and usually that is either a father or a brother . Alright so which is it gonna be ?  Click on one of those over there .  Do you believe in the incestuous gardener snakes or do you believe in the terrifying attack of the clones whiptail lizards ? It's time to make your choice .  You just click, unless you're on an iPod, in which case you can't play this game because annotations don't work .  I'm sorry, go to your computer, okay, it's weird, the mobile internet taking everything over, just go to your computer . By the way, do you like the uhh, the suit ?  I dressed up cause it's about animal sex .  Alright click or you are going to fail .  You have like five, four, four, three, two, one, FAIL .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Wednesday .    I must defy the Wadsworth Constant ! The Wadsworth Constant holds that the first 30% of a YouTube video is always skippable .  Most pumpkins are sold by the pound, so Pro Tip: Bring a screwdriver and a straw to the pumpkin farm, stick the screwdriver in there, pop in your straw, suck out some pumpkin juice, and bam: Cheaper pumpkin .  Don't tell me pumpkin juice doesn't exist, muggles ! If you want to seem like you've read James Joyce's  " Ulysses "  without actually reading it, just memorize these three quotations:  " 'History', Stephen said, 'is a nightmare from which I am trying to awake . ' " ,  " Love loves to love love " , and finally, arguably the first eight words of post-modernism:  " Oh, Jamesey, let me up out of this .  "  .  Pro Tip: Insert  " arguably "  into a sentence and it becomes true !  How do you like them apples, Wadsworth ?  How's that for an entertaining and informative first 30% ? Right, so Hank, two important things have happened: First, I have now signed my name more than one hundred thousand times in my mission to sign every copy of the first printing of The Fault in Our Stars .  Some people think that I'm cheating or using a stamp or that the books won't actually be signed, but you're about to see me sign some .  I am not a cheat ! Two: Hank !  Hank !  Hank !  You know Laurena Segura, Nerd Factor winner for her amazing song  " Permafrost "  ?  Well, she has an EP that is out on iTunes through DFTBA Records by popular demand !  Look how popular the demand was !  It includes not only  " Permafrost " , but a song in French and this song,  " Fireflies of Montreal "  .  Ripple in the midnight clouds No stars at the horizon Flicker from an old street light Attracts the moths who claim the night Satellites that pass overhead In the rib cage sky If they stop, we're good as dead So then what good am I ?  But I've heard from encounters with the past That creatures gentle glowing never last Oh, won't someone tell me after all What happened to the fireflies of Montreal ? Darkness in the alleyways At least for some In the sixties flew away Left a few, now there are none But I've heard from encounters with the past That gentle creatures glowing never last Oh, won't someone tell me after all,What happened to the fireflies of Montreal ? Oh, won't someone tell me after all,What happened to the fireflies of Montreal ? Hank, I don't want to hurt your feelings or anything, but Laurena is fast replacing you as my third-favorite band .  iTunes link in the doobly-doo .  Hank, you're still my favorite videoblogger if that makes you feel better .  Your video on Wednesday was brilliant .  I can't wait to see-- it was on Monday .  Gah, I'm so bad at days !  Alright, I'm going to go back to signing, but I will see you on Friday !    That was too much of a gesticulation; that was like  " wwwaaaahhhh !  "  .  Maybe I'll just leave that in .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Wednesday .  One of the symptoms of signing madness is terrible fashion sense . It's question Wednesday, the day that I answer real questions from real Nerdfighters, let's get right to it . Nobulascense asks: Books or e-readers ? I don't really care how you read, I care whether you read . Pico asks: Can you solve a Rubik's cube ? Yeah, but only in the give a million monkeys a million typewriters for a million years and eventually one of them will write Hamlet way . SocialHazard asks: Do you have a cover for The Fault in Our Stars yet ? Yes ! TacklingRabbits asks: Describe a fight between you and a laser-armed porcupine . All right, I'd probably start with like a right cross - wait, there's a cover for The Fault in Our Stars ?  Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes !  As of two minutes ago my publisher Ju - wow I am DIZZY- Julie Strauss-Gabel said that I could share with you the cover of The Fault in Our Stars, degawbidegawbjidiggibjididdi ! I hope you like it as much as I do .  Da-Da !  There's the cover for The Fault in Our Stars !  This cover was designed by Rodrigo Corral, my favorite book designer in the world .  He designed the covers for The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao and Super Sad True Love Story and The Glass Castle and The Marriage Plot .  I'm really grateful to him for thinking enough of The Fault in Our Stars to want to design the cover, and I'm just in love with it and I hope you guys like it too . Also, a funny thing happened .  My publisher, Penguin, was so excited about all the cool covers that were designed by fans for The Fault in Our Stars that they have decided to let nerdfighteria design the new cover of An Abundance of Katherines .  There's a link in the doobly-doo to abundanceofcovers . com, where you can find out how to submit and stuff, but basically, it's gonna be like when everybody designed covers for The Fault in Our Stars, only one of them will become the actual cover of the book, like maybe forever .  So please submit covers, seriously, because the future of An Abundance of Katherines depends upon it . TheSera asks: What's in your pockets ? Pizza, of course .  What else would I put in my pockets ? HelpfulDetails asks: I used to love pizza, but I've grown to hate it .  Is there something wrong with me ? HelpfulDetails, I'm gonna tell you a story .  Once upon a time I stopped liking pizza, and you know why ?  Because I had a diseased gall bladder, and I needed abdominal surgery .  Listen, I'm not a doctor, but if you stop liking pizza, is there something wrong with you ?  YES ! Hermayane asks: What is your opinion on the Oxford comma, and the controversy surrounding it ? I mean like, I think clarity in the written language is valuable, but debating the Oxford comma is one of those things that reminds me that we're all gonna die, and that our lives are composed of like a finite set of moments that we choose how to spend .   And I can't help but think that if we turn the massive parallel processing power of our brains away from debating the Oxford comma and toward like curing malaria or writing really good Arrested Development slash fiction we might come out ahead as a species . Claudette asks: Are you really gonna sign the entire first printing of The Fault in - Aah, YES ! SomeLostGirl asks: Recently I met a fellow nerdfighter through my pizza shirt in my archaeology class, but he hasn't been in class for five weeks .  Help me find him ? Nameless boy from unknown location, why aren't you going to archaeology class ?  As if I don't have enough to worry about, now I have to be concerned that you're gonna fail archaeology ! IAlreadyFeelUnderPressure asks: Will there be such a thing as a Hanklerfished AND Yetified copy of the Fault in Our Stars ? Yes, but only one . AwesomeTry asks: Who the eff is Hank ? Hank may be the largest island in the Tuscan archipelago, but Hank wasn't big enough for Napoleon .  'Hank wasn't big enough for Napoleon' are words that have never been spoken before in that order . LivesProper asks: What do you believe brevity is the soul of ? Great question Tuesday questions . I'm gonna do a question Tuesday in next week as well, so Nerdfighters leave your questions in comments, Hank, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Monday .  I'm wearing a suit made out of signatures, but I can't remember why .  Please ignore my crazy eyes, they're crazy !  Mmmm craaazyyy .     I wanna thank everybody for participating in signing psychosis .  Because I know my fashion sense is getting worse and worse as I get crazier and crazier with the signatures, but your fashion sense is also getting worse Nerdfighteria, and that makes me feel better .     Sometimes I just like to rub my signatures .  Do you think it could be the sharpie chemicals ?  Maybe they're making me, you know, crazy .  Am I crazy ?  Or am I the sanest person in the room ?  !  I'm the only person in the room .  Hold on, Hank, I have to acquire another person to test my sanity .  Willy, are you a dog or a man ?  THERE'S NO SUCH THING AS A MOG, WHICH ARE YOU ?     Hank, I realized I must free myself from the tyranny of these signatures !     Movie magic !  Hank, as you know I'm under a lot of stress right now, mostly because of the TFiOS signing .  Let's go to the TFiOS-ometer .     OW !  DAAoooow !  Ooh I made a mistake !  It's not as wheely as I thought it was gonna be .  .  .     So, Hank, as you can see I only have twenty-five thousand copies left to sign, but a .  twenty-five thousand is a lot of copies and b .  I don't have any non-travel days left in which to sign those books, so I'm sort of freaking out right now .     Hank, I wanna quickly thank Nerdfighteria again for giving me the worlds firstest first world problem .  I signed fifty three hundred books yesterday .  I took me about fourteen hours .  I'm going to have to keep that pace going on every non-travel day between now and November third in order to finish .  I hope that I finish, because otherwise some of you will get unsigned books and you will be very mad at me .   And I will be mad at myself .  There will be a lot of anger in the room !          Sometimes when I feel a lot of anxiety I just wanna sound my barbaric YAWP over the rooftops of the world, like, YAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAWP !     Somebody got me a zombie unicorn hat, Hank, wasn't that nice ?     Alright, Hank, we are now at Holliday park, and people are looking at me funny, but I don't know why .  I'm just a man, in a suit with a zombie unicorn hat filming himself .  What else do you expect to see in a public park on a Monday morning ?     Okay, Hank, I need Nerdfighteria's help .  Nerdfighters, you have uncovered the story of Ivan the Terrible's terrible library, you have found the truth about Gussie Manlove, and now I need you to explain to me the ruins .     So there are these weird fake ruins in the middle of a public park here in Indianapolis .  They've kind of become real ruins due to decades of neglect .  So I'm hoping that by using the combined research powers of Nerdfighteria we can figure out, you know, what the heck ?     Hank, this would of course be a great time to use Your Pants, but unfortunately Your pants are still broken .  Sentences that don't make sense out of context .  So, uh, we can use a forum at the Ning, or YouTube comments here, but I'm hoping that you guys can just help me figure out: what is this strange and terrible beauty behind me ?     Hank, I'm gonna go back to signing, but I will see you on Wednesday .     PS: Nerdfighters, I will be reading from The Fault in Our Stars in Indianapolis on November first, and I will also be at the final Beckoning of Lovely event at the Bean in Chicago in November eleventh, more info in the doobly-doo .     PPS: Hank, I know we're throwing around words like crazy and psychosis, and I also know that lots of Nerdfighters, including this one, have struggled or are struggling with mental illness .  So anyway, I don't wanna make fun of mental illness, I wanna make fun of me .      Alright, that's all .  See you tomorrow .  Wednesday .  Gah, I'm so bad at days !                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Friday .  I know I promised I wasn't gonna film Vlogbrothers videos in my fancy studio, but it's so fancy, and there's a trampoline in here, and my chair, and a globe, and I'm so happy !  Today I wanna talk about banking .  Specifically, I wanna deliver the quarterly report for The Bank of Nerdfighteria, a bank that spans the entire, wait for it .  .  .  globe .   So, Hank, allow me to pontificate from my asymmetrical throne .  We all know that finance is influenced by the political events of the day, like the promised resignation of National Embarrassment Silvio Berlusconi-- what ?  He's not-- that's not his job title ?  It's PRIME MINISTER ?  Real-- that doesn't seem likely .   Berlusconi's resignation has calmed the markets at all, and there is still great fear that in Europe there will be bank runs and credit crunches and just a nightmare, not only for Europe, but for the entire world .  Meanwhile, at The Bank of Nerdfighteria, things have never been better .   Hank, The Bank of Nerdfighteria, like Toby Turner, has two arms .  I guess also other people, it's just Toby's been on my mind a lot lately .    I love you, Toby .     Hank, I promise not to make a Toby joke for at least three videos .   There is the lending arm and the giving arm .  Most banks have a taking arm, but we decided to dispense with that one .  So, let's begin with the giving arm, also known as The Foundation to Decrease Worldsuck .   Thanks to t-shirt and game sales and your reprehensible goatee, Nerdfighters have now donated more than $4,000 to The Foundation to Decrease Worldsuck .  Hank, off-topic, but I hate your goatee, and I can't believe I have to live with it for another twenty days .  Hank, your goatee looks like some distant descendant of a tribble attacked your face, and frankly, as long as it is on your face, I cannot, in good faith, call you my brother, because no brother of mine would ever have such horrible facial-- d- that's not fair .  Come on .  OK .  Alr-- you're still my brother .   Nerdfighters, Hank and I are going to match your donations for the first $10,000, which means that we have already raised more than $8,000 that will be distributed through the Project for Awesome .  Giving arm is rockin' out !   But the lending arm is doing even better .  Across six continents   Nerdfighters have loaned more than $75,000 through Kiva . org .   So, Hank, I recently loaned money to Edith in El Salvador .  She has a bookstore that also sells candy   and she needed money in order to refurbish her bookstore and also buy new stock .  I loaned her that money, she paid me back, everyone lives happily ever after; she reported back to me that her business is growing, which is awesome of her .  Thank you, Edith .   I was also recently paid back by Hiyam, an accountant living in Lebanon whose name I probably just mispronounced .  She renovated her office with the money I loaned her and reports that her income has since gone way up, so YAY !   In fact, Hank, I've now made more that seventy loans through Kiva . org, and I have never not been paid back, said the novelist using a double-negative .   By the way, Hank, for anybody who doesn't know, Kiva . org is a website that allows anyone to make loans to entrepreneurs in the developing world, and they almost always pay you back, so it's like charity except it's free .  Uhh, there's a link in the doobly-doo if you wanna join the Nerdfighters group and contribute to the lending arm of our bank .    But anyway, you can learn a lot about Nerdfighteria by looking at the graphs of our loans .  For instance, that we like food, and that we prefer to give loans to ladies, perhaps because we are, primarily, ladies .  It looks like a lady Pac-Man eating the dudes .  We're remarkably good about geographic distribution, but our two favorite countries start with  " P " : Peru and the Philippines .  So, apparently we're  " P " -people .    And finally, Hank, no quarterly report would be complete without talk of growth .  The giving arm of The Bank of Nerdfighteria has grown infinite percent, from zero to over 8,000 .  Can't we just give an extra thousand bucks and so I can say  " IT'S OVER NINE THOUSAND !  "   And the lending arm over at Kiva . org has grown by more than 234% this quarter .  Not bad .   Nerdfighters, if you wanna join either arm of The Bank of Nerdfighteria, there are links in the doobly-doo to FightWorldsuck . org and our Kiva group .   And, Hank, thank you for being so committed to reducing worldsuck that you're willing to endanger your marriage and sell your face .  Don't forget to be awesome, I will see you on Monday !                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Wednesday .  The Beckoning of Lovely was so lovely, thanks to everyone who was there .  I wanna talk today about my top 5 zombie apocalypses .  I've been thinking about zombie apocalypses a lot lately .  Here's a broad observation, Hank: we're in an absolute golden age of zombie apocalypses and I think it might be related to the high unemployment rate and the general feeling of malaise .  I think what's bad for people is good for zombies, which makes me wonder .  .  .  are zombies people ?     I mean I know they're not human anymore, they're sort of ex-humans but are ex-humans still people ?  I don't know, that's one of the things I love about zombie apocalypses: they ask the big questions .      #5 Pride and Prejudice and Zombies, which includes one of the great first lines in American literature  " It is a truth universally acknowledged that a zombie in possession of brains must be in want of more brains "  .  Two reasons I love this so much, first it still feels like a Jane Austen novel even though it's about zombies .  It's like Jane Austen's zombie apocalypse, which, to a nerd like me is just .  .  heaven .   And second, even though you keep thinking it's gonna feel like a schtick it never does .  That novel is astonishingly readable .  The only reason it's not higher on the list: I feel like it was a little short on zombies .  In an ideal zombie apocalypse novel I wanna see at least a 1 to 1 paragraph to zombie-killing ratio .      #4 The Walking Dead, no, not - YES .  That one .  The comic .  I don't wanna sound like an originalist but it's much better than the TV show .  Small town cop, brilliant illustrations and most importantly the right kind of zombies .     There are 2 kinds of zombie apocalypses .  So there are the kind of zombie apocalypses in which all people who die, regardless of how they die, are reanimated as zombies and then there are the kind of zombie apocalypses in which only some dead people are reanimated as zombies   - that, in my opinion, is the superior zombie apocalypse .      Because at its core the zombie apocalypse is all about exposing the fragility of human social orders and I think it is done better when it is a specific kind of death that leads to this total collapse because that's more like what's gonna actually happen - at least in my opinion .     #3 George Romero's 1968 film 'Night of the Living Dead' Now that's gonna be extremely controversial because everyone else places that at number one .  Why ?  Because it basically invented zombies although that film never uses the word 'zombies' .  I mean zombies are originally like a Haitian folklore tradition but George Romero's zombies look a lot more like the zombies we see today than anything that came before .  Aside from maybe 'I am Legend' - it's the most influential zombie work of all time - so why am I ranking it so low ?  Simple .  Wrong kind of zombies .  It's like the boring, shuffle-y zombies .  Not the awesome, viral zombies .      #2 Left 4 Dead 2 .  Not Left 4 Dead 1, Left 4 Dead 2 why ?  Because it is the only zombie apocalypse video game in which you can listen to the best zombie apocalypse song of all time, Jonathan Coulton's 're: your brains' Plus there is a lot of zombie killing like in any zombie apocalypse video game the idea ratio minutes played to zombies killed is like 1:80 and Left 4 Dead 2 comes very close to that .      #1 I mentioned it earlier, not Shaun of the Dead that's #6 on my list - sorry, fanboys - #1 I am Legend !  The 1954 novel by Richard Matheson basically invented everything awesome about zombie apocalypses and they had the right kind of zombies   but the right kind .     Hank, if it hadn't been for Matheson's novel we might not even be worried about disease apocalypses, we might still be focused on boring apocalypses like meteors and food shortages .   And yes, I think meteor apocalypses are boring, I'm probably inviting a meteor apocalypse by saying that but I don't care, it's true .     World, if you end that way, it's super cliche' .      Hank, great song on Monday, I will see you on Friday .  Sometimes my gesticulations are like 'I'm a cop at an intersection and you should go this way and y'all should go over here . '    I should just turn the video off .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Monday .  I'm a man .  I'm a zebra .  I'm a ManBra .  Oh wait, that's something else .     So Hank I'm here in the great city of Chicago at a very crowded English teachers' conference, which is a lot of fun because   I get to talk to English teachers about books, one of my favorite endeavors, and   I was starting to miss signing my name .      But before that and before the Manbra and before a bath so luxurious and wasteful that it made me wonder whether luxurious and wasteful are synonyms and before we were coming up the elevator with Henry battling the oppression of strollers and before I found myself at the Bean and before I ate a breakfast at a restaurant where the hostess was a nerdfighter and before I was reminded of the many and varied miseries of Chicago traffic and before all that I was at Brilliance Audio, my audiobook publisher, narrating The Fault in Out Stars .     So there will be two audiobook versions; one real audiobook narrated by Kate Rudd, pictured here greeting her adoring fans in a Panera, and one narrated by me .  Kate sounds exactly like Hazel and her recording is brilliant .  I sound like a thirty four year old man, making for some awkward moments .  Here's a sample:     " Chapter Six .  "     Actually, no .  We must avoid all spoilers .  My recording will be available only in a physical limited edition box set available at dftba . com .  Kate's recording will be the real audiobook and available everywhere .     The reason it's possibly to have two audiobooks, one released by DFTBA Records and one released by Brilliance, is that they worked with me to share the audio publishing rights in a really cool and innovative way .       And Hank, when copyright law works, that's how it works .  Nice people, sometimes with lawyers, get together and figure out what's fair .     So Hank, in your last video you talked about copyright and intellectual property and correctly pointed out that the measures currently before congress on this topic are a steaming hot slice of crazy, which is now apparently a vegetable .       But that said, copyright is really complex .  Like, obviously you're not violating my copyright if you post a quote from my book on your tumblr and obviously you are violating my copyright if you post my book on your tumblr .   But the question of where you draw that line is really complicated and ill-defined .     Side-note: a lot of people will say that creative commons can bypass all of these problems, but I don't think so .  I'm a big fan of creative commons, and Hank, you and I have both released a lot of stuff from songs to zombie apocalypse novellas via creative commons licenses, but I just don't think it's practical for everything .     Okay, so let me give you an example of the complexity of creative use and the kind of chilling effect it can have on discourse .  In 2004, I was finishing a novel called Looking for Alaska .   And the nice lawyers at Penguin decided that the character Alaska quotes too much of an Edna St Vincent Millay poem .  The poem begins  " Night falls fast . / Today is in the past . / Blown from the dark hill hither to my door/ Three flakes, then four/ Arrive, then many more .  "  They decided that under fair use I could only quote two lines of the poem, and then if I wanted to quote more, I would have to pay Edna St Vincent Millay's estate which I would have done, except I didn't have any money .     So Hank, in the same situation today I would just pay and use the quote and it would be fine because now, thanks to copyright, I've sold some books and I have enough money to pay for that kind of thing .     So one of my big issues with copyright law is that currently it privileges people like 2011 me who have five hundred bucks or whatever to pay Edna St Vincent Millay's estate, and it punishes people like 2004 me who don't have that money .      And the really terrifying thing to me about the legislation currently before congress is that it would increase that inequality .     Youtube and Google and tumblr can afford lawyers to fight lawsuits from Viacom but I can't .  Meanwhile, this legislation will do nothing to stop wholesale piracy because it is already illegal .      Hank, in the end it only made my book a little bit worse to lose those lines and I'm gonna disagree with the alarmists .  I suspect that if SOPA were to pass, it would only make the internet a little bit worse .   But the internet doesn't need to be worse !  It needs to be better and I don't think SOPA is pushing us in the right direction at all .     So Hank, that's my take and you can trust me .  I'm a ManBra .  Nerdfighters, let's continue the conversation in comments and Hank, I will see you on Wednesday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Friday .     I hope that you can see this .  This is the rare live show that Hank is actually watching .  So today's video, I am going to read to you Chapter 2 of my new book The Fault in Our Stars which my publisher was very kind to allow me to do, so thank you Penguin for letting me read to nerdfighters chapter 2 .     If you haven't read chapter 1 or you haven't heard me read Chapter 1 then chapter 2 probably won't make sense .  There is a link in the doobly-doo where you can watch it and listen to chapter 1 or read it if you prefer .  .  .  you know, real text .     So I have previous permission from Hank for this so don't try to punish me, I know that you guys like to punish me .  .  .  it's not gonna work, don't try .  This is gonna be a long video .  .  .  what can I say .     Chapter 2 .  .  .  ummm .  .  .  For those of you, I will give you one brief thing .  This book is about two kids, Hazel and Augustus .  They met at this horrible cancer kids support group, and he said  " You should really see the movie V for Vendetta because you look exactly like V for Vendetta-era Natalie Portman, "  and she was like,  " All right, I'll look it up, "  and he was like,  " No, you should come home and watch it with me at my house right now, "  and she, feeling sort of daring, does so .     All right .  Here we go .  I'm kinda nervous .  I haven't read this out loud ever, so I apologize if I'm bad .  .  .  except for when I did it for the audiobook .  Other than that I've never read it out loud .  OK .     Augustus Waters drove horrifically .  Whether stopping or starting, everything happened with a tremendous JOLT .  I flew against the seat belt of his Toyota SUV each time he braked, and my neck snapped backward each time he hit the gas .  I might have been nervous--what with sitting in the car of a strange boy on the way to his house, keenly aware that my crap lungs complicate efforts to fend off unwanted advances--but his driving was so astonishingly poor that I could think of nothing else .      We'd gone perhaps a mile in jagged silence before Augustus said,  " I failed the driving test three times .  "       " You don't say .  "      He laughed, nodding .   " Well, I can't feel pressure in old Prosty, and I can't get the hang of driving left-footed .  My doctors say most amputees can drive with no problem, but  .   .   .  yeah .  Not me .  Anyway, I go in for my fourth driving test, and it goes about like this is going .  "  A half mile in front of us, a light turned red .  Augustus slammed on the brakes, tossing me into the triangular embrace of the seat belt .   " Sorry .  I swear to God I am trying to be gentle .  Right, so anyway, at the end of the test, I totally thought I'd failed again, but the instructor was like, 'Your driving is unpleasant, but it isn't technically unsafe . ' "       " I'm not sure I agree, "  I said .   " I suspect Cancer Perk .  "  Cancer Perks are the little things cancer kids get that regular kids don't: basketballs signed by sports heroes, free passes on late homework, unearned driver's licenses, etc .       " Yeah, "  he said .  The light turned green .  I braced myself .  Augustus slammed the gas .       " You know they've got hand controls for people who can't use their legs, "  I pointed out .       " Yeah, "  he said .   " Maybe someday .  "  He sighed in a way that made me wonder whether he was confident about the existence of someday .  I knew osteosarcoma was highly curable, but still .      There are a number of ways to establish someone's approximate survival expectations without actually asking .  I used the classic:  " So, are you in school ?  "  Generally, your parents pull you out of school at some point if they expect you to bite it .       " Yeah, "  he said .   " I'm at North Central .  A year behind, though: I'm a sophomore .  You ?  "      I considered lying .  No one likes a corpse, after all .   But in the end I told the truth .   " No, my parents withdrew me three years ago .  "       " Three years ?  "  he asked, astonished .      I told Augustus the broad outline of my miracle: diagnosed with Stage IV thyroid cancer when I was thirteen .    It was, we were told, incurable .      I had a surgery called radical neck dissection, which is about as pleasant as it sounds .  Then radiation .  Then they tried some chemo for my lung tumors .  The tumors shrank, then grew .  By then, I was fourteen .  My lungs started to fill up with water .  I was looking pretty dead--my hands and feet ballooned; my skin cracked; my lips were perpetually blue .  They've got this drug that makes you not feel so completely terrified about the fact that you can't breathe, and I had a lot of it flowing into me through a PICC line, and more than a dozen other drugs besides .   But even so, there's a certain unpleasantness to drowning, particularly when it occurs over the course of several months .     I knew I had a text from Maureen; I'm not even going to read it until I finish this .      But even so, there's a certain unpleasantness to drowning, particularly when it occurs over the course of several months .  I finally ended up in the ICU with pneumonia, and my mom knelt by the side of my bed and said,  " Are you ready, sweetie ?  "  and I told her I was ready, and my dad just kept telling me he loved me in this voice that was not breaking so much as already broken, and I kept telling him that I loved him, too, and everyone was holding hands, and I couldn't catch my breath, and my lungs were acting desperate, gasping, pulling me out of the bed trying to find a position that could get them air, and I was embarrassed by their desperation, disgusted that they wouldn't just let go, and I remember my mom telling me it was okay, that I was okay, that I would be okay, and my father was trying so hard not to sob that when he did, which was regularly, it was an earthquake .   And I remember wanting not to be awake .      Everyone figured I was finished, but my Cancer Doctor Maria managed to get some of the fluid out of my lungs, and shortly thereafter the antibiotics they'd given me for the pneumonia kicked in .      I woke up and soon got into one of those experimental trials that are famous in the Republic of Cancervania for Not Working .  The drug was Phalanxifor, this molecule designed to attach itself to cancer cells and slow their growth .  It didn't work in about 70 percent of people .   But it worked in me .  The tumors shrank .       And they stayed shrunk .  Huzzah, Phalanxifor !  In the past eighteen months, my mets have hardly grown, leaving me with lungs that suck at being lungs but could, conceivably, struggle along indefinitely with the assistance of drizzled oxygen and daily Phalanxifor .      Admittedly, my Cancer Miracle had only resulted in a bit of purchased time .     But when telling Augustus Waters, I painted the rosiest possible picture, embellishing the miraculousness of the miracle .       " So now you gotta go back to school, "  he said .       " I actually can't, "  I explained,  " because I already got my GED .  So I'm taking classes at MCC, "  which was our community college .       " A college girl, "  he said, nodding .   " That explains the aura of sophistication .  "  He smirked at me .  I shoved his upper arm playfully .  I could feel the muscle right beneath the skin, all tense and amazing .      We made a wheels-screeching turn into a subdivision with eight-foot-high stucco walls .  His house was the first one on the left .  A two-story colonial .  We jerked to a halt in his driveway .      I followed him inside .  A wooden plaque in the entryway was engraved in cursive with the words Home Is Where the Heart Is, and the entire house turned out to be festooned in such observations .  Good Friends Are Hard to Find and Impossible to Forget read an illustration above the coat rack .  True Love Is Born from Hard Times promised a needle-pointed pillow in their antique-furnished living room .  Augustus saw me reading .   " My parents call them Encouragements, "  he explained .   " They're everywhere .  "      His mom and dad called him Gus .  They were making enchiladas in the kitchen   .  His mom was putting chicken into tortillas, which his dad then rolled up and placed in a glass pan .  They didn't seem too surprised by my arrival, which made sense: The fact that Augustus made me feel special did not necessarily indicate that I was special .  Maybe he brought home a different girl every night to show her movies and feel her up .       " This is Hazel Grace, "  he said, by way of introduction .       " Just Hazel, "  I said .       " How's it going, Hazel ?  "  asked Gus's dad .  He was tall-- almost as tall as Gus--and skinny in a way that parentally aged people usually aren't .       " Okay, "  I said .       " How was Isaac's Support Group ?  "       " It was incredible, "  Gus said .       " You're such a Debbie Downer, "  his mom said .   " Hazel, do you enjoy it ?  "      I paused a second, trying to figure out if my response should be calibrated to please Augustus or his parents .   " Most of the people are really nice, "  I finally said .       " That's exactly what we found with families at Memorial when we were in the thick of it with Gus's treatment, "  his dad said .   " Everybody was so kind .  Strong, too .  In the darkest days, the Lord puts the best people into your life .  "       " Quick, give me a throw pillow and some thread because that needs to be an Encouragement, "  Augustus said, and his dad looked a little annoyed, but then Gus wrapped his long arm around his dad's neck and said,  " I'm just kidding, Dad .  I like the freaking Encouragements .  I really do .  I just can't admit it because I'm a teenager .  "  His dad rolled his eyes .       " You're joining us for dinner, I hope ?  "  asked his mom .  She was small and brunette and vaguely mousy .       " I guess ?  "  I said .   " I don't have to be home by ten .  "     Oh,  " I have to be home by ten .  "  I thought that was a mistake for a second .      " I guess ?  "  I said .   " I have to be home by ten .  Also I don't, um, eat meat ?  "       " No problem .  We'll vegetarianize some, "  she said .       " Animals are just too cute ?  "  Gus asked .       " I want to minimize the number of deaths I am responsible for, "  I said .      Gus opened his mouth to respond but then stopped himself .      His mom filled the silence .   " Well, I think that's just wonderful .  "      They talked to me for a bit about how the enchiladas were Famous Waters Enchiladas and Not to Be Missed and about how Gus's curfew was also ten, and how they were inherently distrustful of anyone who gave their kids curfews other than ten, and was I in school-- " she's a college student, "  Augustus interjected--and how the weather was truly and absolutely extraordinary for March, and how in spring all things are new, and they didn't even once ask me about the oxygen or my diagnosis, which was weird and wonderful, and then Augustus said,  " Hazel and I are going to watch V for Vendetta so she can see her filmic doppelganger, mid-two thousands Natalie Portman .  "       " The living room TV is yours for the watching, "  his dad said happily .       " I think we're actually gonna watch it in the basement .  "      His dad laughed .   " Good try .  Living room .  "       "  But I want to show Hazel Grace the basement, "  Augustus said .       " Just Hazel, "  I said .       " So show Just Hazel the basement, "  said his dad .   "  And then come upstairs and watch your movie in the living room .  "      Augustus puffed out his cheeks, balanced on his leg, and twisted his hips, throwing the prosthetic forward .   " Fine, "  he mumbled .      I followed him down carpeted stairs to a huge basement bedroom .  A shelf at my eye level reached all the way around the room, and it was stuffed solid with basketball memorabilia: dozens of trophies with gold plastic men mid-jump shot or dribbling or reaching for a layup toward an unseen basket .  There were also lots of signed balls and sneakers .       " I used to play basketball, "  he explained .       " You must've been pretty good .  "       " I wasn't bad, but all the shoes and balls are Cancer Perks .  "  He walked toward the TV, where a huge pile of DVDs and video games were arranged into a vague pyramid shape .  He bent at the waist and snatched up V for Vendetta .   " I was, like, the prototypical white Hoosier kid, "  he said .   " I was all about resurrecting the lost art of the mid-range jumper, but then one day I was shooting free throws--just standing at the foul line at the North Central gym shooting from a rack of balls .  All at once, I couldn't figure out why I was methodically tossing a spherical object through a toroidal object .  It seemed like the stupidest thing I could possibly be doing .       " I started thinking about little kids putting a cylindrical peg through a circular hole, and how they do it over and over again for months when they figure it out, and how basketball was basically just a slightly more aerobic version of that same exercise .  Anyway, for the longest time, I just kept sinking free throws .  I hit eighty in a row, my all- time best, but as I kept going, I felt more and more like a two-year-old .   And then for some reason I started to think about hurdlers .  Are you okay ?  "  I'd taken a seat on the corner of his unmade bed .  I wasn't trying to be suggestive or anything; I just got kind of tired when I had to stand a lot .  I'd stood in the living room and then there had been the stairs, and then more standing, which was quite a lot of standing for me, and I didn't want to faint or anything .  I was a bit of a Victorian Lady, fainting- wise .   " I'm fine, "  I said .   " Just listening .  Hurdlers ?  "       " Yeah, hurdlers .  I don't know why .  I started thinking about them running their hurdle races, and jumping over these totally arbitrary objects that had been set in their path .   And I wondered if hurdlers ever thought, you know, this would go faster if we just got rid of the hurdles .  "       " This was before your diagnosis ?  "  I asked .       " Right, well, there was that, too .  "  He smiled with half his mouth .   " The day of the existentially fraught free throws was coincidentally also my last day of dual leggedness .  I had a weekend between when they scheduled the amputation and when it happened .  My own little glimpse of what Isaac is going through .  "      I nodded .  I liked Augustus Waters .  I really, really liked him .  I liked the way his story ended with someone else .  I liked his voice .  I liked that he took existentially fraught free throws .  I liked that he was a tenured professor in the Department of Slightly Crooked Smiles with a dual appointment in the Department of Having a Voice That Made My Skin Feel More Like Skin .   And I liked that he had two names .  I've always liked people with two names, because you get to make up your mind what you call them: Gus or Augustus ?  Me, I was always just Hazel, univalent Hazel .       " Do you have siblings ?  "  I asked .       " Huh ?  "  he answered, seeming a little distracted .       " You said that thing about watching kids play .  "       " Oh, yeah, no .  I have nephews, from my half sisters .   But they're older .  They're like--DAD, HOW OLD ARE JULIE AND MARTHA ?  "       " Twenty-eight !  "       " They're like twenty-eight .  They live in Chicago .  They are both married to very fancy lawyer dudes .  Or banker dudes .  I can't remember .  You have siblings ?  "      I shook my head no .   " So what's your story ?  "  he asked, sitting down next to me at a safe distance .       " I already told you my story .  I was diagnosed when-- "       " No, not your cancer story .  Your story .  Interests, hobbies, passions, weird fetishes, etcetera .  "       " Um, "  I said .       " Don't tell me you're one of those people who becomes their disease .  I know so many people like that .  It's disheartening .  Like, cancer is in the growth business, right ?  The taking-people-over business .   But surely you haven't let it succeed prematurely .  "      It occurred to me that perhaps I had .  I struggled with how to pitch myself to Augustus Waters, which enthusiasms to embrace, and in the silence that followed it occurred to me that I wasn't very interesting .   " I am pretty unextraordinary .  "       " I reject that out of hand .  Think of something you like .  The first thing that comes to mind .  "       " Um .  Reading ?  "       " What do you read ?  "       " Everything .  From, like, hideous romance to pretentious fiction to poetry .  Whatever .  "       " Do you write poetry, too ?  "       " No .  I don't write .  "       " There !  "  Augustus almost shouted .   " Hazel Grace, you are the only teenager in America who prefers reading poetry to writing it .  That tells me so much .  You read a lot of capital-G great books, don't you ?  "       " I guess ?  "       " What's your favorite ?  "       " Um, "  I said .      My favorite book, by a wide margin, was An Imperial Affliction, but I didn't like to tell people about it .  Sometimes, you read a book and it fills you with this weird evangelical zeal, and you become convinced that the shattered world will never be put back together unless and until all living humans read the book .   And then there are books like An Imperial Affliction, which you can't tell people about, books so special and rare and yours that advertising your affection feels like a betrayal .      It wasn't even that the book was so good or anything; it was just that the author, Peter Van Houten, seemed to understand me in weird and impossible ways .  An Imperial Affliction was my book, in the way my body was my body and my thoughts were my thoughts .      Even so, I told Augustus .   " My favorite book is probably An Imperial Affliction, "  I said .       " Does it feature zombies ?  "  he asked .       " No, "  I said .       " Stormtroopers ?  "      I shook my head .   " It's not that kind of book .  "      He smiled .   " I am going to read this terrible book with the boring title that does not contain stormtroopers, "  he promised, and I immediately felt like I shouldn't have told him about it .  Augustus spun around to a stack of books beneath his bedside table .  He grabbed a paperback and a pen .  As he scribbled an inscription onto the title page, he said,  " All I ask in exchange is that you read this brilliant and haunting novelization of my favorite video game .  "  He held up the book, which was called The Price of Dawn .  I laughed and took it .  Our hands kind of got muddled together in the book hand off, and then he was holding my hand .   " Cold, "  he said, pressing a finger to my pale wrist .       " Not cold so much as underoxygenated, "  I said .       " I love it when you talk medical to me, "  he said .  He stood, and pulled me up with him, and did not let go of my hand until we reached the stairs .     I'm going to move the light, because the light is bad; it's in my face .  It hurts, so I'm going over here .  I'm going to see if that's better, or worse .  If the light .  .  .  there's too much light .  For the rest of Chapter 2, you'll have this vastly different, frankly inferior background .  With .  .  .  it'll be better for my head, which, you know, is important .  Yeah, this background is in every way worse .  I just made .  .  .  I just made the video so much worse .  I apologize !     Right, so then they walk up the stairs, and .  .  .  we shall move on .     We watched the movie with several inches of couch between us .  I did the totally middle-schooly thing wherein I put my hand on the couch about halfway between us to let him know that it was okay to hold it, but he didn't try .  An hour into the movie, Augustus's parents came in and served us the enchiladas, which we ate on the couch, and they were pretty delicious .      The movie was about this heroic guy in a mask who died heroically for Natalie Portman, who's pretty badass and very hot and does not have anything approaching my puffy steroid face .      As the credits rolled, he said,  " Pretty great, huh ?  "       " Pretty great, "  I agreed, although it wasn't, really .  It was kind of a boy movie .  I don't know why boys expect us to like boy movies .  We don't expect them to like girl movies .   " I should get home .  Class in the morning, "  I said .      I sat on the couch for a while as Augustus searched for his keys .  His mom sat down next to me and said,  " I just love this one, don't you ?  "  I guess I had been looking toward the Encouragement above the TV, a drawing of an angel with the caption Without Pain, How Could We Know Joy ?         " Yes, "  I said .   " A lovely thought .  "      I drove Augustus's car home with Augustus riding shotgun .  He played me a couple songs he liked by a band called The Hectic Glow, and they were pretty good songs, but because I didn't know them already, they weren't as good to me as they were to him .  I kept glancing over at his leg, or the place where his leg had been, trying to imagine what the fake leg looked like .  I didn't want to care about it, but I did a little .  He probably cared about my oxygen .  Illness repulses .  I'd learned that a long time ago, and I suspected Augustus had, too .      As I pulled up outside of my house, Augustus clicked the radio off .  The air thickened .  He was probably thinking about kissing me, and I was definitely thinking about kissing him .  Wondering if I wanted to .  I'd kissed boys, but it had been a while .  Pre-Miracle .      I put the car in park and looked over at him .  He really was beautiful .  I know boys aren't supposed to be, but he was .       " Hazel Grace, "  he said, my name new and better in his voice .   " It has been a real pleasure to make your acquaintance .  "   " Ditto, Mr .  Waters, "  I said .  I felt shy looking at him .  I could not match the intensity of his water-blue eyes .       " May I see you again ?  "  he asked .  There was an endearing nervousness in his voice .      I smiled .   " Sure .  "       " Tomorrow ?  "  he asked .       " Patience, grasshopper, "  I counseled .   " You don't want to seem overeager .  "      " Right, that's why I said tomorrow, "  he said .   " I want to see you again tonight .   But I'm willing to wait all night and much of tomorrow .  "  I rolled my eyes .   " I'm serious, "  he said .       " You don't even know me, "  I said .  I grabbed the book from the center console .   " How about I call you when I finish this ?  "       "  But you don't even have my phone number, "  he said .       " I strongly suspect you wrote it in the book .  "      He broke out into that goofy smile .   "  And you say we don't know each other .  "     That's the second chapter of The Fault in Our Stars, my new book which comes out on January 10th, which is in like 48 days or something, very soon .  I hope you guys like it .  That's the first chapter of like 26 chapters so don't feel spoiled or anything, you still have, you know .  .  .  I'm really bad at math .  .  .  at least twelve-thirteenths of the book to read .      But there is also, you can also read that in text at scribd . com, so I will put- there will be that link in the doobly-doo as well as links in the doobly-doo to listen to chapter 1 and all the places you can pre-order the book, wherever whatever .   And then also, oh yeah, if you want to hear me read this whole thing, the only way to do that is to buy the special DVD box set that I talked about in my last video .  Thanks to Brilliance Audio for making that possible, so there's a link in the doobly-doo to that as well .     I hope you guys, yeah, I really hope you guys enjoy the rest of the book and, yeah, it's been a lot of fun to work on but I'm really excited to share it with you, I'm really excited that it's not going to be just my thing any more, so .  .  .     Sorry for the long video, I did go a bit over my 4 minute limit, but again I have permission from Hank so please, you know, take your punishment daggers, put them back in the sheathe, and I'm going to go read my dirty texts from Maureen Johnson, but I will talk to you later .  .  .  .  something is happening over here at the printer so I am going to go .     DFTBA .  Best wishes .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Wednesday and I'm at my aunt-in-law's house .     Like most of the internet, I am fascinated by honey badgers, these two-to-three-foot-long creatures that weigh thirty pounds, live here, eat anything and lead these solitary, non-monogamous lives of total bad-assery .   But, Hank, Randall's famous and crazy-ass narration does nothing to capture the glory of the honey badger .  DUN DUN DUN DUN HONEY BADGER !     Hank, I'm not making this up, although it's hotly debated among naturalists, but there are lots of reports of honey badgers, which are small, attacking larger prey, like wildebeests or zebras or water buffalo by going straight for the nuts .  This is known as  " emasculating your prey; "  basically, you just bite off the balls and then you attack the rest .  Also, there are many reports that when honey badgers attack humans, which does happen occasionally, they do go straight for the nuts .  DUN DUN DUN DUN HONEY BADGER !     Hank, a lot of biologists believe that honey badgers are able to attack beehives because they go up to those beehives and then release scent out of their anal glands which is so malodorous that the bees run away and then the honey badgers are able to take the honey .  That's right, Hank, they use a fart attack .  So not only do honey badgers have, like, the most fearsome claws and teeth in the animal kingdom, they also have the stinkiest farts .  Of course, some bees heroically stay behind and sting honey badgers, but it doesn't bother them much, because they are more immune to bee venom than almost any mammal on the planet .  DUN DUN DUN DUN HONEY BADGER !     So, Hank, do you know what cheetah cubs look like ?  Probably not, because you probably didn't spend your entire Thanksgiving vacation researching honey badgers .  They look like this, and many wildlife biologists speculate this is an evolutionary adaptation to make baby cheetahs look like honey badgers, because no predator would ever want to attack a honey badger unless it's absolutely desperate, because honey badgers are harder to kill than 19th century Russian monks .  What ?  It's a Rasputin joke .  That's too obscure ?  Come on, everybody knows Rasputin .  DUN DUN DUN DUN HONEY BADGER !     Let's tackle the question of why honey badgers are so hard to kill .  So honey badgers, like an Olsen twin, have more skin than seems entirely necessary given their frame .  This loose-skinnedness means that whenever you grab or bite them, there's always room for them to, like, come around and bite you back .  Plus, their skin is incredibly thick, like, you can't hack through it with a machete, and it's resistant to arrows--it's like some kind of super-skin .  So here you are trying to bite through this super-skinned creature and he's coming around and biting at your face and you're just thinking  " I should have gotten a gazelle !  "  DUN DUN DUN DUN HONEY BADGER !     So all this means that the number one honey badger predator, like most animals, is humans .  Now, honey badger skin, and, again, I'm not making any of this up, can stop some bullets, but you can kill them with a high-powered rifle, but they get us back because they often dig up human graves and eat our ancestors .  DUN DUN DUN DUN HONEY BADGER !     Honey badgers, Hank .  They are not kidding around .     So that's what I did with my Thanksgiving vacation .  I also watched a lot of tape of myself playing FIFA to prepare for the FA Cup Final .  We're going back to the FA Cup Final !  The Swindon Town Swoodilypoopers will be facing Chelsea Football Club and we will avenge our terrible loss in last year's FA Cup Final, and I am excited !  If you don't know what I'm talking about, link in the doobly-doo .     Hank, I hope you learned something about honey badgers .  I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank it's Monday .  This giant squid of anger is reading my collected works . You'll never guess what came in the mail today .  .  . unless you guessed it's the Fault in our Stars !   This is the real book, one of the few unsigned copies actually . On the back it has quotes from Markus Zusak, and Jodi Picoult and E .  Lockhart .  Markus Zusak says,  " The Fault in our Stars is John Green at his best .  You laugh, you cry and then you come back for more .  "  Thank you Markus Zusak .  More importantly, thank you for writing the Book Thief .  That was nice of you .  It's the real book Hank, it has all the pages in it and everything .   So Hank you know about Gaiman's law .  Gaiman's law, invented by Neil Gaiman, holds that if an author opens a book he or she wrote, he or she will inevitably come across a typo .  Of course Gaiman's law holds again .  I think the only typo in the entire book is in the author's note .   But I found it, immediately .  Anyway Hank, that reminded me that typos are among my fields of expertise so I thought I would share with you my top 5 typos of all time .  It smells so good .   Number 5, the Pasta Bible .  Hank,this is a totally normal book about pasta except that it contains a typo so horrific that the publisher found every copy it could, and destroyed them .  There was a recipe for tagliatelle that called for salt and ground black people .  They meant pepper .  They, they wrote people .   Number 4, the entire name Imogene .  The name Imogene comes from the Shakespeare play, Cymbeline and it's probably a transcription error .  Shakespeare probably meant Innogen which was a name at the time .   But when they wrote it down those N's got really close together and became an M and BAM !  We have Imogene Heap, whose name was based on a typo .   Number 3, and I'm cheating because this is not from a book, it's from a newspaper, but it's my favorite headline ever .  From the Washington Post,  " FDR in bed with co-ed .  "  Cold, they meant cold, but they wrote co-ed .  FDR was so delighted about this that he asked for a hundred copies but sadly they had already been pulped .  This is particularly funny because Franklin Delano Roosevelt did have a lot of affairs, although never with a co-ed .   But you know, this was back in the days when newspapers reported news .   Number 2, the United States Constitution .  Article 1, Section 10 Hank,  " No state shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any imposts or duties on imports or exports except what may be absolutely necessary for executing it's, IT'S inspection laws .  "  Hank when you write it's, if you are contracting it is, yes .  If you are not contracting it is then no .  I mean seriously hank Amendment 28 should be  " We acknowledge that earlier in this very constitution we screwed up it's and its and we are sorry "  .    And Number 1, the Bible .  So Hank in 1631 two printers were tasked with making a new King James Bible and they did a great job except when they were doing the seventh commandment, they forgot a 'not' .  So their Bible said,  " Thou shalt commit adultery . , "  As you can imagine Hank this didn't go over particularly well .  The Archbishop of Canterbury said,  " I knew the time when great care was had about a printing, Bibles especially .  "  So there you go Hank, people have been declaring the decline of good proof reading for 5 centuries and the guys who made the mistake were fined as were the guys who made the 1716 version of the King James Bible in which Jesus encourages an adulterous woman, " Go and sin on more .  "  It must be  " Go and sin no more .  "   So Hank that's my list which I pretty much I created solely so that I could say, you know,forgive me for any mistakes .  If you want to pre-order your signed copy of the Fault in our Stars there are links in the doobly-doo to do so .  Hank, I'll see you on Wednesday .                 
Good Morning Hank, it's Friday .     You know I'm a professional video blogger, because I use my dog for white balancing .     So Hank, remember in 2008 when you and the Katherine and I piled into a mini-van and played Cows and traveled the country on the Tour de Nerdfighting ?     By the way, do you like my new shoes ?  Also, are you allowed to wear Pumas with black socks ?  I think so .  I think that's the rule .     Right so, Hank, three years later, you and the Katherine and I are going back on tour to celebrate the release of The Fault in Our Stars except this time with a slightly bigger vehicle in the hopes that at the end of it we will still lo- like each other .     What is it, Esther Day ?  So Hank, today I'm going to answer Nerdfighter's questions about the tour .  Beginning with:    Where are you going ?  Alright, all in one take: Boston, New York City, Washington DC, Raleigh North Carolina, Atlanta Georgia, Birmingham Alabama, New Orleans Louisiana, Houston Texas, Austin Texas, Albuquerque New Mexico, Tempe Arizona, Santa Monica California, San Francisco California, Portland Oregon, Seattle Washington and Vancouver Canada .  Stop saying we never come to you Canada, we're on our way !     Or if you weren't able to follow along, here is a nice map designed by the inimitable Karen Kavett .  As you'll notice like early human civilizations we're mostly sticking to the coast .  This is not because we do not love the great corn-fed center of the United States, it's because it's snowing there in January and we are going to be in a car-ish thing .     So Midwest this me hugging you, saying I'm sorry .  We'll be there next time .  I lo-, I like you .     When does this tour start ?  January 10th, the day the book comes out and it ends January 31st .     So is this tour gonna be free or what ?  Mmm .  .  .  or what .  Book stores have basically always lost money by hosting Tour de Nerdfighting events and that has to change, because in the last three years hundreds of book stores have closed costing tens of thousands of American jobs, many of them Nerdfighter jobs .  So in most cases the price of admission is the price of a copy of The Fault in Our Stars, bought from the book store in question .  We're working with some of the best independent book stores in the world, from Politics and Prose in Washington DC to Powell's in Portland and we want to support them .   But you get a free book that's signed and Hanklerfished and you also get a poster and you get an amazing show that's gonna feature singing and reading and discussion and a little bit of electrocution .  Also, puppetry .  That may not be a selling point .     What will these events be like ?  I just told you there's gonna be electrocution, what else do you want ?  No, it's gonna be amazing .  I'm gonna read from The Fault in Our Stars, Hank's gonna play song, we're all gonna do fun stuff together, there's gonna be amazing discussions, it's gonna be really fun !     Are you gonna sign books and everything ?  Yes, and Hank will also be signing CDs .     Do you have to have that many buttons unbuttoned on your shirt ?  It's kinda awkward .  Oh, sorry I didn't notice .  My bad .  Here, I'll just go all the way up so that you don't have to worry at all, okay ?  Yeah, that's gonna be better for everybody .     Actually it's kind of hard to take you seriously now .  Like, just, just there is that .  .  .  ?  That's good .     How do I get tickets ?  Tickets are going pretty fast, like the event in New York is actually already almost sold out, sorry about that, we're trying to add a second event in New York, but there's lots of information in the doobly-doo where you can find out where to call or click or whatever to get tickets .     So to summarize; Hank, Katherine and me and occasionally The Yeti will be on tour in January of 2012 .  There is more info in the doobly-doo .     In the meantime: Hey, the Project for Awesome is coming up .  Have you started working on your Project for Awesome-video yet ?  I've started working on mine .  Not to say that I'm ahead of you, but I think I might be ahead of you, so you should probably start doing it .  For those who don't know the Project for Awesome is an annual event in which YouTubers upload videos about their favorite charities on December 17th, so start making your video now so you can upload it then and yes I'm unbuttoning buttons because I read on the Internet that that makes you listen to me when I talk about charity .  Oh that, that only works for really pretty people ?  Why are you always so mean to me, off-screen figment of my imagination ?     Hank, I'll see you on Monday .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Monday .  I was using Sing-a-ma-jigs as a pillow .     Hank, like a lot of people in Nerdfighteria, I'm tired, because the Project for Awesome was this weekend and it was AWESOME  .  .  .  . and fatiguing .     First, Hank, the numbers .  In the last 48 hours, the Foundation to Decrease WorldSuck raised 75,000 dollars .  We did this in a number of ways .  People donated directly at projectforawesome . com  , people also bought things at dftba . com, like for instance, your hanklerfishes and my new zombie apocalypse story, the sequel to zombicorns .      But the Project for Awesome raised even more money because Alex Day is donating the proceeds from remixes of  " Forever Yours "  to charity .  That's gonna be at least $15,000 -- by the way, get your  " Forever Yours "  and your  " Forever Yours "  remixes; there are links in the dooblydoo !     Also, there are a lot of other successful projects, like iJustine's project to get wells built in the developing world, and Rosie raising money for the Stroke Association, and when you add it all up, it's more than 100,000 dollars !   And you can still donate at projectforawesome . com or by buying my new zombie apocalypse story for the next two days .  More info in the dooblydoo .      And of course, the Project for Awesome generated thousands of videos about charities, millions of views, tens of thousands of tweets, hundreds of thousands of comments, and, as a challenge, you released this picture of yourself as an eight year old, which nerdfighteria, because it is awesome, then began to remix .  Let's see some of those remixes .    Yes, yes, more, yes !  I love it, I love the remixes !      But Hank, I have to say the highlight of P4A this year for me was when I covered my face in sharpie when we reached 50,000 dollars, and then immediately thereafter, someone rang my doorbell .   And then I panicked, because I'm not trying to be the guy in the neighborhood with the Sharpie face, so I just hid .     This was the most fun I've had at the Project for Awesome since 2007, and I just ahhhh it was great !  Yay !   And remember, you can still donate .  The Foundation to Decrease WorldSuck will be distributing this money based on how we as a community decided it should be distributed, which I'm really excited about .  You'll see more about that in the coming weeks .     In other news, Hank, there are updates on the Tour de Nerdfighting in the dooblydoo, including that shows in Vancouver, Boston, New York, Portland, and Raleigh are sold out -- sorry, those places .   But there are still tickets in lots of cities, and nerdfighters, even if you don't see us on tour, you might still see us on tour, because this is what our van looks like .  Hank, I'd like to thank my publisher Penguin for giving you such a hilariously small billing; it brings me a lot of joy .     So Hank, that's our van .  The Fault in Our Stars comes out in three weeks .  I'm trying not to freak out, but I'm not succeeding .  I have to go right now because I have to write crossword clues for the crossword puzzle that's gonna be in the Tour de Nerdfighting program so people will have something to do while they stand in line .   But I did make a playlist with my favorite Project for Awesome videos which you can watch now by clicking on my head, and Hank, I have to say that your Project for Awesome video about the well that nerdfighteria built in Haiti was pretty amazing .  It reminded me how lucky we are to be a part of the Nerdfighter community and also how lucky I am to be your brother  .  .  .  .  ladies .     Hank, I'll see you on Wednesday, and again, click here for the playlist .  Best Wishes !                 
Good morning, Hank it's Friday . I have not had an A #1 week .  In fact I've had like a P #6 week, certainly not a Z #10 that's as bad as it can get but definitely in the bottom half .  So Hank, Wednesday morning I woke to the news that more than a thousand copies of my new book The Fault in Our Stars had been prematurely shipped by a bookseller to people who pre-ordered it .  That was pretty bad because the book isn't supposed to come for three more weeks and for the last year, Penguin and I have both worked extremely hard to make sure that everyone can read the book at the same time . In fact, Hank, before today every single person who read The Fault in Our Stars including you and me had to sign very intimidating-looking non-disclosure agreements .   And Penguin spent a lot of money on an embargo and we didn't send the book to the people we'd usually send it to like book critics and movie people and foreign publishers - all of this was because I really do not want the book spoiled for the very nice people who wanna read it . Sorry I lost my temper a little bit there . Take it down, and, there .  Okay . This is particularly true for the very nice people who are passionate enough about The Fault in Our Stars to pre-order it but really I don't want the book spoiled for anyone . I mean, Hank, my first book Looking for Alaska came out almost 7 years ago so you would think that it's okay to post spoilers but it's not because this week thousands of people bought Looking for Alaska who don't know what it's about and who don't want it spoiled for them .  But of course Hank this is one of the great struggles of the internet, when we read or hear or watch something that we like we wanna talk to people about it and that - the internet is great at that but the internet is terrible at keeping secrets I mean Hank if the internet was one of my high school friends it would be me .   But seriously Hank, did you hear about Sean and Kim ?  Because something definitely happened I'm not gonna get into details second base . So listen Hank I understand that not everyone who comes to The Fault in Our Stars is gonna come to it without spoilers and I also understand that this shipping error was an error .  It was a mistake and it was an honest mistake .  There was no maliciousness involved .   But Hank when I heard about this I immediately thought of George R .  R .  Martin who, when his most recent embargoed book, was leaked said  " If we find out who is responsible for this we will mount his head on a spike .  "  That seemed a little crazy to me when I first read it but Wednesday morning I found myself somewhat more sympathetic to George R .  R .  Martin's position .  And then I called you Hank because that's what I do when I'm mad and then you reminded me of something, which is that my readers don't just care about my books, they care about each other .   And then Hank as word leaked out that this had happened I saw more and more nerdfighters on Twitter and Tumblr and Facebook saying that they were gonna get the book early but they weren't gonna read it until January 10th .  Or saying there were gonna read it but pledging not to ruin the reading experience for the vast majority of people who will not receive their books until at least January 10th . Hank, it's been a P #6 week but I was reminded again never to underestimate nerdfighteria, which is always an A #1 community .  Those of you who have read Looking for Alaska may know that there are a lot of reasons why I want this book to come out on January 10th .  The Fault in Our Stars has been with me in some form for more than a decade and I am so excited to be less than three weeks away from sharing it .   But I really want everyone to have the same reading opportunity so thanks in advance for not posting spoilers .  I also have to say Hank this thing could have spiraled way out of control and I have to thank Amazon and every independent bookstore in the world for not shipping their pre-orders in response to this leak .  That was really, really cool of them and I appreciate it because it allows us to keep the January 10th publication date .  The Fault in Our Stars is still available for pre-order and in the meantime I did write some other books that you can read . Nerdfighters, thank you again for caring not just about Hank's music and my books and the videos we make but about each other .  This is a big hug for you .  Thank you for being awesome, I'm so, so lucky .  Please don't post spoilers . Hank, I will see you in real life in like two and a half weeks oh my gosh but in the meantime I'll see you on the internet on Monday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's January 2nd, twenty-twelve .  Five years ago today, I uploaded my first vlogbrothers video .  In honor of that anniversary, here's a terrible jump cut .  So slow .     Hank, I hate change, but when I look back at the last five years, I can't help but think that things have changed for the better .  For instance, I used to not have a kid who could say 'Awesome . '    Henry: Awesoooome .     Hank, five years ago today I would never have guessed that there would be a nerdfighteria, or a Project for Awesome, or In Your Pants jokes, or an evil baby orphanage .  There still isn't an evil baby orphanage, but there should be !  We just need a time machine .  Hank, speaking of which, I have found the perfect location for the evil baby orphanage .      Did you know that the Philippine island of Luzon contains a lake, which contains an island, which contains a lake, WHICH CONTAINS AN ISLAND ?  !  THAT'S THE ISLAND ON WHICH WE SHOULD PUT THE EVIL BABY ORPHANAGE .  You know, once we get the time machine and collect all the evil babies, etc .     Right, Hank so I hate change, but it being the new year, it's time for some changes .     Change number one: In the past, we have referred to 2007  , 2008, 2009 .  Hank, I would like to propose that we switch it to twenty-twelve .  Why is this important ?  It's not .  However, it's a way to save some syllables and also we didn't, like go through all the 1900's   calling everything 'nineteen hundred and eighty-six' .  At some point, you make the change, and now is the time .  Twenty-eleven sounded weird; twenty-ten sounded weird; twenty-twelve sounds great !     Change number two: for the past several months, Your Pants has been down due to Russian hackers, but Your Pants is coming back this week; huzzah !     Change number three I think we should say 'huzzah' more often .  Not so much that it's a thing but enough that it's like a secret thing .      Change number four: two vlogbrothers videos per week in two thousand twelve - ahh, don't throw things at me, I'm sorry, aahhh .  .     Hank, every week you'll see me on Tuesday and I'll see you on Friday .  This is primarily because I'm still sick, and one of the things my doctors want me to do is scale back on work a little bit, so I'm gonna try to honor their wishes .   But Hank, the other reason is that in trying to make three videos a week, the thing that we've let slide is all the project-based-nerdfighter-increasing-awesome-and-decreasing-world-suck stuff that we love so much .      And remember in two thousand twelve there will be more vlogbrothers content than ever, because we're going to teach you biology and world history on our channel CrashCourse - link in in the dooblydoo - and today, TODAY, Hank is launching SciShow, his show where he talks to you about science and he's very funny - WILLIE I'M TRYING TO MAKE A VIDEO .     Also because the first episodes of Sci Show were filmed in November, Hank has that hideous goatee that so many of you inexplicably liked .  Sadly, Hank, you failed to film an episode with that epic policeman mustache .      Nerdfighters, let us know in comments what you would like to see more of from us in twenty-twelve and also what you would like to see more of in the community .      So I know change sucks, but nerdfighters, I hope that you understand .  Hank, DFTBA, I will see you on Friday .  I'm gonna go play with that guy .     It sounded like I was talking about God, but I was talking about Henry .  He's upstairs .                 
Good morning Hank, it's January 10th, 2012 !  The day that The Fault in Our Stars comes out !  It's actually Monday, January 9th, but I have to make this video now because tomorrow I gotta be doing a bunch of things . It's question Tuesday, The day that I answer real questions from real Nerdfighters ! How are you doing ? Good .  I'm just a tiny bit stressed out - I have to leave my family for a month which is kind of a bummer - but I'm excited to go on tour .  How are you doing ?  You can't answer; you're inside of the camera . I hope I get my copy today so I can lick your signature . Um, that's not a question, but I don't recommend licking sharpie .  That, that's bad for you . So what inspired you to write The Fault in Our Stars ? Almost 12 years ago I worked as a student chaplain at a children's hospital and ever since then I've been trying to write a funny, honest story about it and it just, you know, took a while .  A long while .  .  . Do you think The Fault in Our Stars is your best book yet ? I don't know, the reviews have definitely been better than for any of my other books .   But authors shouldn't be trusted to judge their own work, I don't think .  Like, Mark Twain thought that his best book was Joan of Arc .  Yeah, no . Hank, I gotta go pack and stuff .  Walk with me . Could an unladen swallow carry a copy of The Fault in Our Stars in its talons ? Well definitionally not, as it would then be a laden swallow .  Do you like this tie ? Was it hard to write The Fault in Our Stars as a parent ? I don't think I could write it until I was a parent . How much research did you have to do about the medical stuff in The Fault in Our Stars ? More than a hypochondriac probably should . What made you decide to write this one from a girl's point of view ? That's pretty hard to answer without spoilers, but part of it was that I wanted to think about the way gender constructions shape our understanding of what constitutes heroism . Do you think that V for Vendetta is a proponent of democracy or anarchy ? I think V for Vendetta is primarily a proponent of a very specific and pervasive idea of heroism . Can you do peanut butter face ? I'm in an airport, people will think that I'm crazy .  Alright, fine, hold on .  Do you guys have any peanut butter crackers ?  These were the best I could do .  Happy ? Will I feel out of the loop if I haven't read Looking for Alaska ? No, it's not like Harry Potter .  My books don't have anything to do with each other . What genre of music are the Hectic Glow ? The genre of awesome . Hey, my pre-order wasn't signed ! Don't panic .  Just email sparksflyup@gmail . com with your name, address, and the place where you ordered the book . Did you ever get emotional when writing this book ? Yeah, quite a bit actually, but I'm a crier . Wait, is The Fault in Our Stars gonna make me cry or laugh or what ? Well, ideally it's going to make you feel all of the things !  The people in the airport think that I'm crazy .  The people in the airport think that I'm crazy .  I probably shouldn't have done that while doing a dance .  That's probably - let's face it, there's nobody in the airport .  Seriously, I got this whole section to myself .  There were some people here but they left when I started talking into a video camera . Was Esther an inspiration for this book ? Definitely .  There's no way I could have ever written The Fault in Our Stars unless I had known Esther .   But at the same time it's really important to note that Hazel is not Esther .  The book is made up, I wrote a novel, I promise . Does The Fault in Our Stars contain anything about fruit ? I don't think so, I think that might be one of its insufficiencies, is a failure .  .  .  to tackle fruit . Are there any tickets left to anywhere on the Tour de Nerdfighting ? Yeah, if you live near New Orleans, Houston, Austin, Phoenix, Albuquerque, Seattle, or San Francisco .  Otherwise, no, I'm sorry .  Ticket info in the dooblydoo . Is this real life ?  Heeeeeeeeey ! Has Nerdfighteria influenced your writing at all ? As you'll probably see in reading it, Nerdfighteria has shaped this book in so many ways that I can't even list them . What was your favorite moment in the creation of The Fault in Our Stars ? So Hank, Islamic mystics have this word fana which means, like, dissolution or annihilation of the self and for me that's what reading and writing do when they're working .   And when I was writing The Fault in Our Stars I was very, very lucky to have many moments where I felt like I wasn't me, like I was somehow transcending the limits of myself, and that was really great and I can only hope that readers will have that experience, too .  Thank you all for reading The Fault in Our Stars !  I hope that you like it !  DFTBA !  Best wishes, Hank !  I will see you in a minute when I go over to your room .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday . I wake up every morning after a few hours of sleep with 500 Miles stuck in my head .    When I wake up, you know I'm gonna have this freaking song in my head !  I pack up, head out to the van that I still cannot believe exists, and then drive 500 miles or whatever to the next place . The van is very comfortable, and we have neck pillows, but it's impossible to sleep in there because 1 .  it's not a bed, and 2 .  there is an Xbox, and so all we ever do is beat the holy living crap out of each other's pixels .  We arrive early afternoon and find lots of books needing signatures and Hanklerfishes, which takes a couple hours, although fortunately I have a fair bit of experience in the field of signing my name, and Hank, I'd wager you've drawn more anglerfishes than anyone alive on the planet .   And before you tell me the plural of anglerfish is anglerfish, WIKIPEDIA IT . Then the people start to show up, and there are a lot of them .  They wear my face on their torso, or Doctor Who shirts, and they bring book cakes and they have things I wrote tattooed on their bodies, sometimes in borderline appropriate places, all of which is amazing and beautiful and also of course completely terrifying .    ahhh .  .  . i'm nervous .  .  .  Then we have a quick meeting with Hank Sock,   Hello, this is Hank Sock . Backstage before the show .  A little nervous, but, uh, a lot of people out there .  I can see 'em through the crack in the curtain .  And it's time to start the show .  Hank, writing is something you do alone, it's a profession for introverts who want to tell you a story but don't want to make eye contact while telling it, and on some level, writing is the exact opposite of this:   Then I read and talk about The Fault In Our Stars, and you sing some songs .  I answer some questions, you wear a tutu, we answer questions together and whoever is talking when the timer goes off gets shocked with the Charlieissocoollike-patented shocker .    You're very far-- --awwww !    YEAAHHHHH !    Then you sing some more songs and people dance and it feels magical and otherworldly to be in a room full of people who feel unembarrassed about their enthusiasm and intellect !     And then we sign for five hours, which I won't show you much of, because the only thing more boring than standing in line is watching other people stand in line . Then we get to the hotel around 2 AM, and I sleep for a few hours and wake up with 500 Miles in my head, grateful and astonished to have the readers and the brother I've lucked into .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
JOHN: Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  So funny story, last night the Tour de Nerdfighting was in Houston, we had a great time, and after we got done signing, it was like midnight, and we went to the hotel and they told us that they had accidentally sold our rooms and they were very sorry .  I was pretty cranky because I really wanted to go to bed, but then we had to go to a different hotel .   And walking into the other hotel, I could tell it was kind of nice, and the guy behind the counter was like,  " We've reserved one of our best rooms for you, "  and I was like,  " whatever, I just wanna go to -- Oh .  My .  God .  "  Armoire ?  More like armoi-some !  I mean, Hank, this place is literally bigger than my house .  I'm not even sure that I can sit in all the chairs .  *Song About An Anglerfish plays* We just noticed this is an actual Picasso print .  It's pretty unbelievable .  There's like --HANK: It's not even nailed down .  I love how the things in this hotel are not nailed down . JOHN: You could just take it . HANK: There's a certificate of authenticity . JOHN: Are you serious ? HANK: Yeah . JOHN: Oh my HANK:  " Seated Woman .  "  Author, Pablo Picasso . JOHN:   Hank, you're holding a Picasso while eating Pringles . HANK: First !  *Song About An Anglerfish plays*JOHN: You're retiring and becoming a professional art thief .  No more Tour de Nerdfighting for you . HANK: This is really easy .  I never really thought art thievery would be so easy . JOHN: All of which goes to show you, Hank, that sometimes disasters can turn out armoisome .  I'll see you on Friday .   And by Friday, I mean right now, 'cause you're holding the camera .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .   So one of my favorite YouTubers, CGP Grey, link in the dooblydoo, recently did a video debunking 10 popular misconceptions .  This inspired me to want to debunk more misconceptions !   For instance, number 1: The Qu'ran says all martyrs get 72 virgins in heaven .  Yeah, the Qu'ran doesn't say that .  That tradition comes from a hadith, which are collections of sayings of the Prophet Muhammad .   And that particular hadith is really poorly sourced, it's, like,  " I heard from a guy, who talked to a guy, and his cousin was all, like, that the prophet had said, like, 72 virgins or something .  "  Furthermore, Hank, there are some people who argue that the word 'virgins' is being mistranslated here and that actual translation is, like, 'white grapes' .   Misconception number 2:  . 999 repeating is less than 1 .  In fact,  . 999 repeating is equal to 1, which you know, because  . 333 repeating is equal to 1/3, and 1/3 plus 1/3 plus 1/3 is 1 .   Misconception number 3: Ostriches bury their head in the sand to hide from predators .  Incorrect .  They bury their heads in the sand because they have to dig nests, and they don't have hands with which to dig .   Misconception number 4: Sharks don't get cancer, so you should eat shark to keep yourself from getting cancer .  In fact, sharks do get cancer, although we don't know how often because everyone is always killing them !   Misconception number 5: There is an edge to the universe .  So, Hank, during the last week of our tour you became obsessed with the fact that there is no edge to the universe, but instead of saying it like that you just kept saying  " Dude .  .  .  no edge .  .  .  "   And you kept accusing me of being inadequately fascinated about the lack of edgeness in the universe when in fact it was your portrayal of this fact that was so annoying to me because you'd just be, like, eating a sandwich or something and you'd turn to me and be like  " Hey John .  .  .  there is no edge .  "   But anyway, yes, apparently there is no edge to the universe .  I still don't understand how that works, but I'm sure that you will explain it to me .   Misconception number 6: Albert Einstein failed mathematics .  No, he didn't .  Albert Einstein was really, really good at mathematics .  In fact, to quote him,  " Before I was 15, I had mastered differential calculus .  "   Misconception number 7: Al Gore claimed to have invented the internet .  No, he didn't .  He claimed to have taken the initiative in creating the Internet, which is also an exaggeration but just not, not the same exaggeration that people accuse him of .   Misconception number 8: Late in the winter of your 17th year, you are 17 .  No .  late in the winter of your 1st year, you are still zero, late in the winter of your 2nd year you are 1, and late in the winter of your 17th year you are 16 .   Misconception number 9: Humans have 5 senses .  Wrong, humans have way more than 5 senses .  The 5 senses were identified by Aristotle, and here's a little rule of thumb: Aristotle, while he is very famous and everything, is almost always wrong .  In addition to the 5 senses we all know, you can also sense relative temperature, which is called thermoception, you can sense body and limb position, and you can sense balance, which is called equilibrioception .  You can also sense the need to go deeper, which is called Inception .  Sorry .  I apologize .  I apologize to my whole family for that .   Misconception number 10: George Washington had wooden dentures .  No, alas, his dentures were far more disturbing than that .  They were made from gold, lead, hippopotamus ivory, dead people teeth, and donkey teeth .   Link in the doobly-doo to the original video, also to Michael Aranda's brilliant video of Hank saying  " no edge "  over and over again .  Also, have you seen our new show, Crash Course ?  We're teaching you about stuff !  Here's a preview .      The test will measure whether you are an informed, engaged, and productive citizen of the world, and it will take place in schools, and bars, and hospitals, and dorm rooms, and in places of worship .  The test will judge your ability to think about things other than celebrity marriages, whether you'll be easily persuaded by empty political rhetoric, and whether you'll be able to place your life and your community in a broader context .  The test will last your entire life, and it will be comprised of the millions of decisions that, when taken together, make your life yours .   And everything, everything will be on it .      Hank, I hope you're feeling better, don't forget to be awesome, I will see you on Friday !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . Today I want to help you understand what's going on Syria, and I know that you're on the internet, so you're constantly being distracted by, like, photographs of Ryan Gosling and homoerotic Sherlock watercolors, but just GIVE ME FOUR MINUTES . Okay, so our story begins in 1946 with Syria declaring independence and getting a flag .  Syria was briefly a parliamentary republic, but it never really went took and in the first ten years they had four different constitutions and like a gajillion changes in government .  They were led by this guy, and this guy, and this guy, and this guy -Couple important things .  First, in 1956 Syria signed a pact with the Soviet Union promising to dabble in Communism in exchange for guns and tanks and stuff, also in 1958 Syria and Egypt briefly decided to become the same country, the United Arab Republic, which of course necessitated a new flag; but then in 1961 Syria was like,  " We're seceding and we're going back to our old flag !  "  This led to a big mess and a couple of coups, culminating in the Ba'ath party taking control in 1963, with a new flag . Hank, you may remember the Ba'ath party from Iraq, Ba'athism is a secular - that is, non-religious - political philosophy that advocates for a socialist pan-Arab state .  Ba'ath means  " renaissance; "  the idea is that all Arabs would unify and have this awesome utopia - it didn't work . All right, let's skip ahead to 1970 when heretofore Defense Minister Hafez al-Assad was president of Syria via bloodless coup, which is my favorite kind of coup .  Hafez al-Assad really oversaw the first stable period in Syrian history .  He passed a constitution, he established a state-run economy that led to significant growth in per-capita GDP; he also killed a lot of dissidents, disastrously invaded Israel in 1973, and in 1976 entered the Lebanese civil war first on one side, then on the other, thereby beginning a Syrian occupation of Lebanon that would last for almost 30 years .  That occupation was not popular, particularly because Syria had a habit of assassinating Lebanese politicians; also he changed the flag twice: once in 1972, and then again in 1980 .  One more thing about Hafez al-Assad: he was Alawi .  Alawism is a sect of Shi'ism with some very unusual beliefs, for instance, unlike most Muslims they don't believe that praying five times a day is mandatory, and also unlike most Muslims they celebrate Christmas . Al-Assad tried to bring Alawism into the Islamic mainstream: for instance, he prayed in public and he built a lost of mosques, but still to a lot of Sunni and even Shia Muslims, Alawists are seen as apostates . So in 2000, Hafez al-Assad died, and the Syrian parliament immediately passed a law reducing the minimum age for president from 40, to 34 .  You'll never guess who was 34 at the time, unless you guessed it was al-Assad's son Bashar .  Bashar al-Assad is immediately elected president of Syria with 97 . 9% of the vote, a statistic that is slightly less impressive when you consider the no one else was allowed on the ballot, and there is widespread hope that Bashar al-Assad will bring reform .  Not so much . That said, no one foresaw how he would respond to the pro-democracy Arab spring protest that began in early 2011 .  Soldiers who refused to fire on civilians were summarily executed, entire towns were bombed, torture was widespread, tens of thousands were arrested .  The U . N .  estimates that in the last year more than ten thousand people, most of the unarmed civilians, have been killed in Syria, and Hank, while this fight is definitely not about religion, it's important to understand that most of the pro-democracy opposition is Sunni Muslim and that Assad still enjoys significant support among many Alawis and Christians .  And now Syria finds itself in a civil war .  The U . N .  security council has tried to act on this, but both Russia and China have vetoed all resolutions about Syria, possibly because of, like, old Cold War ties, possibly because of what they see as failed intervention in Libya, and possibly because Russia's only naval port in the Middle East is in Syria .  So at the moment, violence continues, and there is no clear path forward, like, Syria has been expelled from the Arab League, and sanctions will drag down the Syrian economy, but will any of that force al-Assad to resign ?   And if he does, can Syria return to stability, or will it again find itself having, like, three coups a year ? It's worth remembering that the pro-democracy opposition's flag is this, the one that flew over Syria during all its coups and instability, but those people want freedom and representative government, and the Syrian regime is massacring them for it . So, should we help ?   And if so, how ?  Those aren't rhetorical questions, let's continue the conversation in comments . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday    Today I want to tell you a story about this stuffed honey badger and my son, and I also want to tell you the best news ever, but first it's the time for the bank of Nerdfighteria's quarterly report, so I guess I should get dressed up .      And done .     So Hank, as you know, the bank of Nerdfighteria has two arms, the lending arm and the giving arm .  A lot of banks have a third arm, the taking arm, but we believe that two arms is enough .  Well unless you're juggling, then a third arm is super helpful .     Let's begin our report with the giving arm, the foundation to decrease world suck .  Update one: Hank, the foundation to decrease world suck has been a project of Nerdfighteria for more than five years, but we are finally becoming an actual charity, like, that you can make tax deductible donations to, so that process is ongoing an very complicated .      Update two: financials .  Right, so at the end of the last quarter the foundation to decrease world suck had more than $9000 in its coffers and today we have, like, $30 in our coffers, which represents a tremendous success !  Because the whole story is that we went from $9000 to $88,000 to nothing, because we gave it all away .  more than $16,500 was sent to each of five charities, which were chosen by Nerdfighteria; they were Kids in Need of Desks, This Star Won't Go Out, the H . P .  Alliance, Water . org, and the other one .  .  . what's the other one .  .  . oh .  Kiva, right .  The operating costs of the foundation to decrease world suck continue to be zero, so every dollar donated goes to charity .      By the way, Hank, I like that my puff ends right where yours begins; it's like-- it's like, a puff portal .     So Nerdfighters, thanks for all your hard work during the project for awesome and look how much suck we decreased .   And now we come to the second arm of the bank of Nerdfighteria, the lending arm .     So Hank, Kiva . org is this amazing website that Nerdfighters have been using for many years that allows regular people to make loans to entrepreneurs in the developing world .  So basically, I loaned, for instance, Edgar in Peru money so he can increase the yield on his land or Henry in South Sudan money so he can buy more supplies for his store, and then they pay me back, basically giving developing world entrepreneurs access to the same kind of inexpensive credit and banking systems that the rest of us benefit from and, frankly, kinda take for granted .   And the coolest part is that 99% of the time you get paid back .  Actually, that used to be the coolest part; that's now the second coolest part, but I'll get to the coolest part in a second .      Okay, Hank, so in the last quarter the Nerdfighter Kiva group has gone from $75,000 in loans to $239,000 in loans, which represents a quarterly increase of, like, a gajillion percent .      Actually 319%, I just Google chatted with resident mathematician Daniel Biss .      Our Kiva group now has over 9000 members .  Over 9000 members .  anybody ?  huh .  .  .  ?  is that meme too old and that joke too subtle ?  sorry .   And right now, Hank, we're near the total amount loaned this month, comfortably situated between the Atheists and the Christians .      But Nerdfighters, that is not even the best news .  Here is the best news: if you are not currently a member of Kiva and you are one of the next 20,000 people to become a member, I am pointing at my pants because there is a link in the dooblydoo, you will be given a free loan .  Well it won't be free, it'll be paid for by one of the co-founders of Linkedin, but it will be free to you !  Thanks to this guy's generosity it costs you nothing to become an awesome banker .  You can go right now and make a $25 loan to an entrepreneur in the developing world for free .     So hopefully, Nerdfighters,if lots of you take advantage of that our group will grow even more and you will discover the wonders of micro-finance and everything will be beautiful and nothing will hurt .  I've gotta tell you a story about a honey badger .     So Hank, when we were on tour a Nerdfighter gave me this homemade honey badger and Henry has become completely obsessed with it .   And Henry basically only has two questions about everything in the world, whether it's an airplane or a person, what sound does it make and what does it eat ?  So I told him the truth, that if you hear the sound a honey badger makes it's too late for you and that honey badgers eat everything .  So he interpreted that second answer very broadly .  Like, whenever we can't find the remote he's always like,  " honey badger eat it "  .   And when you try to explain to him the extinction of the dinosaurs he's like,  " honey badger eat dinosaurs .  "  All of which is to say, Hank, that when I asked Henry why he thought the universe had no edge, I knew how he'd answer, but I was still delighted .  .  .      That's right, Hank, honey badger ate the edge .  I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .     My son, Henry, doesn't watch a lot of television, although he does enjoy Uncle Hank's space videos, but I recently watched 12 of the most popular programs for toddlers to understand what he might be watching .   And, Hank, because I remember that you were a big fan of the show Blue's Clues when you were in college, I come to you today with an introduction to contemporary children's television .     So, Hank, in general, watching children's television is a dark and surreal descent into madness, where the characters on the screen talk directly to you .     So, for example, at the end of every episode of Dora the Explorer, she'll be like,  " what was your favorite part ?  "  and I'll be like  " well, the weirdest part was the part where you and your pet jaguar went camping with nothing but a flashlight and some snacks "  and she'll say,  " I liked that part, too !  "  and I'll be like,  " no, I didn't like it, Dora, I thought it was weird .  You're a toddler .  You should be inside .  "     Also, Hank, in the world of contemporary children's television, we've apparently abandoned child labor laws, like, take for example the Dora the Explorer spin-off, Diego .  Diego's like a four year old who's been inexplicably promoted to some kind of park ranger that allows him to go around the world and save animals .     Apparently, there are a lot of animals in distress, because like, Wonder Pets, which is about an operatic gerbil, he saves animals in need .     As do the kids on Little Einsteins, a show about kids who fly around on a little rocket called .  .  .  Rocket .       But of course, Hank, there are also people in need, specifically child actors, and for those child actors, we have Special Agent Oso, an  " Oso "    special agent panda who travels around the world helping child actors learn to do things, like tie their shoes .     Team Umizoomi is also in the child actor assistance business, but they specialize in math, which can be a little bit humiliating because they'll be like,  " hey, do you know what shape this is ?   And I'll be like, mmm, octahedron ?  "   And they'll say,  " that's right, it's a dodecahedron !  "   And I will feel the shame .      Hank, there are also lots of shows about kids who go into their backyards and have really compelling hallucinations like The Cat in the Hat and The Backyardigans and Phineas and Ferb, which, by the way, is the best television program I have ever seen for children or adults .  In fact, not to brag, but I own a Perry the Platypus Swindon Town Swoodilypoopers doll .     It airs on the Disney Channel, which also contains Mickey Mouse Clubhouse; the first time I saw Mickey Mouse Clubhouse, I was like,  " this is amazing, it's a television program with no advertisements !  " , and then I realized, the television program IS the advertisement .      What else, oh yeah, there's the hot slice of crazy known as Yo Gabba Gabba .  Hank, I don't know what Yo Gabba Gabba is about, but I do know that it contains more good music than MTV .  Like, Hank, if you want to hear The Shins or Weezer or Weird Al or Mos Def on TV, you have to watch Yo Gabba Gabba .       And then you have the wildly popular Ni Hao Kai Lan, a show that I'm surprised right wing commentators haven't gotten upset about, given how they felt about the Teletubbies, I mean, Ni Hao Kai Lan basically teaches American children like the importance of Confucian filial piety, a smattering of Mandarin Chinese words, and the very dangerous lesson that the best way to solve your problems is by collaborating with a tiger .  Whereas in America, we know that the best way to solve our problems is by not collaborating at all .       And lastly, Hank, there are currently two different shows on television about octopuses who inexplicably do not need water to survive .  There's the charming Oswald and the terrifying Octonauts .  So the Octonauts live at the bottom of the ocean in some kind of pressurized contraption, and their leader appears to be this monocled octopus, and then when sometimes they'll have animals in distress, they travel around in this anglerfish which is awesome, except the anglerfish has a male voice, and we all know that is a female anglerfish, because if it were a male, it would be just a sperm producing parasite on her side .     More importantly, Hank, what's up with the octopus symbol that's on their hats and their uniforms and their coffee mugs ?  Has their monocled octopus cohort created some kind of cult of personality where they worship him as dear leader ?   And why is there a children's television program celebrating this weird underwater cult ?      And Hank, that's not even to mention Bubble Guppies, a show in which little mermaids and merdudes, despite living underwater, are able to have campfires .  No wonder our science scores are so low .     So, Hank, those are my conclusions from a week of watching children's TV, don't forget to be awesome, and I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank .  Its Tuesday .  As you can tell from the gray-speckled walls behind me, I'm in an airport .  Its Question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real nerdfighters .  Today I am going to answer questions about love and sex .     When do you think its okay to lose your virginity ?   You know, call me old-fashioned, but I don't think thirty-four year old men vlogging in airports should decide when other people have sex .     I like this guy and I think he likes me back, but I'm not sure .  How do I find out for sure ?   I'm gonna tell you what I tell Henry several times a day .  Use your words .  Just talk to him .  If you start going out, you're gonna have to talk to him anyway .     There's a girl at my school who I like, but I don't exactly know h-  Just ask her, using your words .  You're not an Avox .  Wait .  Or are you ?  If you're an Avox, write it down .     What is your stand on birth control pills ?   I try not to stand on birth control pills .  I think it might decrease their effectiveness .     How do you say no to sex without offending your partner ?   To answer your question, let's make a Venn diagram .  Let this circle be asshats .       And here    are people who get offended when you say no to sex .     Do you think it matters how many people someone has slept with ?   No .   And it particularly bothers me that women are held to a different standard on this front than men .  Also, its such a weird thing to care about .  Like, imagine if I started eating Cheerios for breakfast .  Would Cheerios be like,  " I'm not the forty-eighth cereal you've tried eating ?  !  I don't feel special "  .  Well then, screw you, Cheerios .  I can't go into the past and un-eat all those cereals, but that doesn't mean I don't genuinely enjoy your whole grain crunch .     How do I know if he's  " the one "  ?   I don't think there is one  " one "  .     Have you ever had a crush on a band member ?   Let me answer your question with a question .  Is Toby Turner in a band ?     John, do you ship Wholock ?   Sometimes I feel like you guys just make up words to confuse me .     When is it too soon to say,  " I love you "  ?   Just remember you can't unring that bell .     Have you ever wanted to experience giving birth ?   No .  I-I've seen birth .  No .  Yeah .  No .  No .  No .  No .     Is there a way to tell if he actually cares or if he just wants a hookup ?   Yeah .  Is he a douchebag ?     The first time you saw the yeti, did you think she was the one ?   No .  The first time I saw the yeti, she was in eighth grade and I did not think,  " Ah, I'm gonna marry that eighth grader "  .     What do you think of an Othello kind of love ?   You mean the kind where you beat up the love of your life and then kill her ?  I'm opposed to it .     In your opinion, is premarital sex wrong ?   I certainly don't think there's anything inherently wrong with premarital sex .  Like, for example its legal for gay people to be married in some states but not in others .   And its a little bit ridiculous to say that its possible for gay people to have morally justifiable sex in Vermont but not in Mississippi .  Frankly, I don't really see it as my job to tell people who they should have sex with or under what circumstances .  Also, this an awkward thing to talk about in an airport .  The people in the airport think that I'm crazy .  The people in the airport think that I'm crazy .   And maybe I am, to be fair .     What is the secret to a successful marriage ?   Mutual generosity .  Also, its nice if you can like the same television programs .     Is it wrong to do gay stuff like, just kissing ?   Aw man, your question makes me so sad .  No, of course its not wrong .  If you want to kiss someone and that person wants to kiss you back, that is awesome .   And don't let anyone tell you you should be ashamed about that .  People are so ashamed about their sexuality, but you shouldn't be, its great .  I'm talking about it in Terminal A of the Indianapolis Airport .     On average, what animal takes the longest to copulate ?   I don't know, but I do know that llama sex lasts like two hours because male llamas experience something called,  " dribble ejaculation "  .  Why do I know these things ?     He loves me and I don't love him and he won't take  " no "  for an answer ?   Yeah, then he doesn't love you .  He doesn't even respect your right to choose your own romantic partners .     Is it weird that I'm in college and I've never kissed anyone ?   Not at all, as evidenced by the fact that your question was the most thumbed-up out of the hundreds that I got on Facebook .     How do you cover up a hickey ?   Hickeys are still a thing ?  I never understood hickeys .  Its like, I like you so I'm going to suck on neck until there's bruising .     How can I ask someone if he's gay in a subtle way ?   Areay ouyay aygay ?  Just ask them !  Use your words !     Nerdfighters, thanks for the great questions .  Hank, I have to go get on a plane .  I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . I thought today I would answer all the questions that you asked Charlie McDonnell in your last video, thereby briefly fulfilling my dream of becoming Charlie McDonnell .  Also it gives me an opportunity to tell you a story about astronauts farting on the Moon .  But I have to run a lot of errands today, so walk with me . How you doing ? I'm doing okay .  I'm excited to see the new office, but first I gotta go to the old office . How is Missoula ? I love Missoula .  It's the only town in Montana I ever visit, so it always reminds me of of that great Richard Hugo poem, Degrees of Gray in Philipsburg which of course begins:  " You may come here some Sunday on a whim .  Say your life broke down .  The last good kiss you had was years ago .  " So Hank, this is the La-Z-Boy Mom got me for my 23rd birthday, where I've written all of my novels, and this is the old office .  I love the old office because it has my chair, and I can play Swoodilypoopers videos here, but it is also quite small, and I share it with Stan, and sometimes Danica, and occasionally Tim . Admittedly, none of them is currently here, but I swear they are not imaginary friends .  What was the last thing you screamed at ? Probably the most recent time was last night I had to take some recycling out into the garage and it was dark and I got creeped out, so I just did a preemptive scream in case there was an intruder hiding in the garage .  I'm a big fan of the preemptive scream .  I think it's underrated . Ay, it's my new office !  Look at my view of the river !  God I love rivers . If you could eliminate one word from the English language what would it be ? Celebrity . If you could go back in time and kill baby Hitler, would you kill baby Hitler ? Hank, I can't believe you're still asking this question five years after the advent of the evil baby orphanage .  No I would not kill evil baby Hitler, I would kidnap him ! Okay now I have to go get my movie deal notarized .  Today is the day of the best errands ever ! What was your worst challenge ? Um, all the eating ones were pretty bad, but definitely waxing my chin was the worst . If you had to get a tattoo what would it be ? I think I'm too old to get a first tattoo, but I like the idea of getting a brown dot getting tattooed on my shoulder then people would be like  " I really like your mole !  "  Because you know that something people say, and I would be like  " It's not a mole it's a tattoo !  "  And suddenly there is a storm . Do you spend more time writing or editing your videos ? Writing but more importantly I want you to ask yourself what is the thing you most don't want to step on when leaving your car ?  Bloody glove . Back home . Are you an unusually gassy person ? I think I'm regularly gassy person, but Hank did you know the astronaut John Young once got the farts on the Moon ?  He was on the Moon and he was like  " Man I got the farts again, I got crazy frackin' farts !  "  only he didn't say frackin', instead he dropped the first f-bomb on the Moon .  And then came one of the greatest moments in Moon history, NASA came on the line and they were like  " Commander Young, you've got a live mic there .  "   And then there's this wonderful pause in the recording and then John Young comes back on and says  " Ah, how long has the mic been on ?  " Do you spend more time making videos or playing video games ? That's easy .  I spend way more time making videos .  In fact the only time I ever play video games is when I'm playing as the Swindon Town Swoodilypoopers .  Wait, is Angry Birds a video game ?  Because that would change my answer . Do you want to go play video games now ? Yes, I'm preparing for season 4 where the Swindon Town Swoodilypoopers will go for their third straight F . A .  Cup !   And don't tell me it's a made up thing .  Hank, if it's a made up thing why do I have a real trophy ?  Don't tell me it's a plate, it's not a plate, it's a trophy ! Hank, please say hi to Charlie for me, I will see you on Friday ! P . S .  Nerdfighters, what are we doing for Hanko de Mayo ?  Well hopefully you'll do lots of fun nerdfightastic things for Hanko de Mayo .  I have a present for Hank that involves you that I will reveal on Hanko de Mayo .  
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .   I really liked your video about marriage equality on Friday but today I wanted to approach the question of gay marriage from a specifically religious perspective .    But to do that we have to first figure out what exactly marriage is, which turns out to be incredibly complicated .  All right .  So, to illustrate this I'm gonna make yellow Sing-a-ma-jigs men and blue whoosey-whats women .   Let's begin with the idea that so-called  " traditional marriage "  is a union between one man and one woman .  Well, that's simply not accurate, there are some very traditional marriages that did not feature just one man and one woman .  For instance in the Bible, King David was married to eighteen women and Solomon, who is known for his good judgment, was married to seven hundred .  Which is not even to mention his three hundred concubines .  Frankly, it just seems greedy .   In fact, Hank, all most everything we associate with traditional marriages, from white dresses to monogamy, to scripture reading to saying  " I do " , is not very traditional .   For the vast majority of Christian history - until the 16th century - it was uncommon for Christian marriages to happen in churches or to be overseen by clergy or even to feature witnesses .  People were getting married by agreeing to be married and then honoring that commitment .  It was just:  " I marry you "  -  " I marry you "  Mmmmmmmmmarried !   And then often - although not always - they'd go to church to note that they got married because the church kept the records .   Furthermore, the idea that marriages always occur between one man and one woman implies that everyone is either a man or a woman - which is simply not the case and it never has been .  A significant portion of the human population - somewhere around  . 5% - has always been intersex .  Intersex people may be chromosomally XXY or XYY have  Androgen insensitivity syndrome, you know, all that conditions that make them neither unambiguously male nor unambiguously female .  Historically, many of these people have gotten married without the social order falling apart and many of them still get married today .   But laws like the one just voted onto North Carolina make it unclear whether intersex people are allowed to marry anyone .   Right, so marriages and sex turns out to be very complicated .  Well, I'm about to make it more complicated .   So, to many religious people, including many Christians, Jews and Muslims, marriage is not just a legal agreement but a covenant .  You're making a promise to God that you will stick together for life .   And for many religious people, marriage is only really marriage if that covenant is involved .   And that means that for lots of those people gay marriage is impossible because homosexual relationships are inherently sinful, which means that God cannot be present in and bless that union .   Now, Hank, I should add that lots of religious people and institutions don't believe that, but some do and I'm not going to try to convince those people or those institutions that they are wrong because 1 .  it won't work and 2 .  I read the comments from your last video; it was a little discouraging .    But, Hank, if we're gonna say that the legal benefits of marriage should only be extended to people who have made this covenant with God then we get ourselves into a huuuuuge problem .  Like, you and the Katherine got married in a field; does that mean that you're not really married ?  Like, should you be allowed to visit the Katherine in the hospital or share custody of kids you adopt or file taxes together ?  Or should those privileges only be extended to people who got married in a church, like me ?   And do all church weddings count or only people who get married in certain kinds of churches ?  Because then I might be in trouble .   Hank, that line of thinking does not lead to a good legal definition of marriage .  The truth is, marriages are intensely personal, and they're defined not by courts or by voters but by the people who live inside of them .  That's traditional marriage: people making a private, daily, lifelong commitment .   We can't make gay marriage illegal, because gay marriage is already happening .  It has been happening, in fact, for as long as human beings have been pledging themselves to each other .    But tragically, in most of the world we deny gay people the rights and obligations that are associated with their marriages .   And that is just discrimination .   There are going to be marriages you don't like, and married people who do things that you don't think married people should do .   But whether they're getting married, or they're getting married, or they're getting married, those marriages won't affect yours .   Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  I really liked your video on Friday, I thought you did a great job explaining Facebook's IPO and why stock markets are so important, but at the end of the video you said this:Hank: The company that gives me a free service, that I use and have never and will never pay for, is somehow worth one hundred billion dollars: what ? Now Hank, I don't know if you intended that as rhetorical question, but today I am going to answers your .  .  . Hank: what ?   OK Hank, here's the thing: broadly-speaking, there are two kinds of companies in this world .  There are companies that sell you things, and then there are companies that sell you .  Actually come to think of it, there's a third kind of company, the kind that sells both things and you, like cable companies for instance .  Cable companies are like  " hey, if you give us eighty bucks a month, we'll give you the privilege of watching content funded primarily by advertising .  But anyway Hank, I believe that the Internet maxim is true: if you're not paying for a service, you are the product for sale .  Facebook is worth a hundred billion dollars -- well actually, it's not worth a hundred billion dollars -- but, it's worth whatever it's worth because of you .  I mean Facebook could MySpace tomorrow and it would be worth nothing .  That means that companies like Facebook, or Google or Twitter or Tumblr, have to listen to their users, which is a good thing .   But make no mistake, the reason Facebook is valuable is because you use Facebook and you're valuable .  .  .  I mean you in particular Hank,  but also other people . The stuff you upload to Facebook, whether it's wall posts or photographs or videos is valuable because it brings other people into the site to look at that stuff and then they in turn upload their stuff, which brings in yet more people into the site .   And everything you upload helps Facebook to know more about you, which in turn allows Facebook to know what you are tempted to buy and encourage you to buy it . Now Hank, I know that you like everyone on the planet will insist that you don't even look at ads .   And you insist that you aren't even conscious of what's getting hawked over there, or possible over there: damn you spatial intelligence .   And you'll inevitably believe that you get the better end of the bargain, because of course you get the thing you want for free and the ad has no effect on you .  Well Hank, let me just point out that A) that is what advertisers want you to think, and B) corporations actually have a really good idea of how advertisements affect your behavior .  In fact there are many thousands of people who are working full-time to make sure that the ads you see are worth more than they cost .  To put it succinctly, almost by definition, advertisers buy you for less than you're worth . I mean Hank, corporations spend four hundred and ninety eight billion dollars on advertising last year .   And you may think that advertising doesn't affect your behavior, but there is half-a-trillion dollars that says otherwise .  You and I, and anyone that uses Facebook or Twitter or Google or Angry Birds has agreed to be commodified .  I'm not saying that's a bad decision, but it is a decision and it's one that should be made thoughtfully and consciously . Hank, we've never been totally comfortable with ads, but it has always felt like he best solution to allow us to make the stuff that we like, with the people we like .   But I don't know, Nerdfighters, I'm interested in your thoughts on this, should Chrysler and Super PACs and scammy online dating-sites fund Nerdfighteria .   And should we be OK with being the product . I look forward to continuing that conversation in comments .  Hank, thanks for teaching me what an IPO is .  DFTBA .  I will see you on Friday .                 
Good Morning Hank, It's Tuesday, and as you can tell from the grey speckled walls behind me, in a stirring turn of events, I am in an airport . I have to go to this big book conference called BEA, and give a bunch of speeches, and I'm super nervous . BUT It's question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from Real Nerdfighters .   Let's get right to it . Q: Hard tacos or soft tacos ? A: Burritos . Q: Would you ever consider doing a video upside down ? A: What do you mean like this ?  Or like this ?  I could do this, but the people in the airport are looking at me kind of weird .  Ugh, I'm too old for physical comedy .  Ugh .  Ohhhh . Q: Hey whatever happened to the Abundance of Katherines cover contest ? A: Actually that's part of the reason I'm going to New York, I get too announce the winner on Thursday, and reveal the cover .  I'm so excited . Q: How do you feel about Looking For Alaska getting banned from several High School's in Tennessee ? A: Yeah bad, I mean that stuff used to make me really angry, now it just makes me sad .  I set a book in you Tennessee, this is how you repay me ? So Hank, I'm here on the 39th floor of my hotel, and there is a rope, a rope . I don't know if there's somebody above or below me .   But I'm afraid for them, and a little bit for myself . I would go to the edge of the room and look but I, I can't get too close to the window or I get nervous . BACK TO QUESTION TUESDAY ! Q: Would you go on Dancing With the Stars ? A: No, it combines two of my least favorite things, reality television, and dancing in front of people . Q: Would you be okay with the United States becoming more like Canada ? A: Well if you mean living in a country where people live longer healthier lives, are more likely to be employed, less likely to experience sexual violence .  Then I guess so, but if you mean putting a Queen on our money, HELL NO ! Q: At what age did you hit puberty ? A: Well I didn't really hit it, so much as I sort of gently bumped into it .   But I was about 14 . Q: Exactly how bad is your eyesight ? A: Well it's just a little bit better than my dad's, and one time when we were kids my dad lost his glasses in the ocean when we were at the beach .   And later we were watching T . V .  and he said  " Hey John, could you move those clothes ?  "  and I said  " Dad, that's Hank .  " Q: Favorite book of the year ? A: So far, Behind The Beautiful Forevers . Q: Henry's first word ? A: Hi Q: Favorite movie ? A: Harvey Q: Why do wasps exist ? A: Why do you exist ? Q: Favorite infinite set ? A: Real numbers Q: Favorite Beatle's album ? A: White Q: Favorite YouTuber ? A: Charlie Q: Is the Yeti a Nerdfighter ? A: YES ! Q: Meaning of Life ? A: Helping Q: Favorite Shakespeare Play ? A: I've answered that before, I think last time I said Hamlet, so this time I'm going to say Macbeth . Q: Are you afraid of Sharks ? A: Yeah, why do you think I live in Indianapolis, we've got awesome shark insulation . Q: Pineapples, or People ? A: Hmm, that's tough, both pineapples and people are kind of prickly and they both manage to somehow be simultaneously too sweet and too sour .  But I think I'm going to have to go with people just because I find them more physically attractive .  But on the other hand you can eat pineapples,no I'm going to stick with people .  I mean you can eat them in a pinch . Q: Will you cast Nerdfighters in The Fault In Our Stars movie ? A: Right so I know this sounds weird but if Fox makes a movie, of The Fault In Our Stars, I will have exactly as much say in casting as you will .  And the reason they don't trust me to make those casting decisions is that I should not be trusted with that decision, because in my mind Drew Barrymore is still like 16 years old . I'll be like  " Why not Jennifer Lopez for Hazel, and that charming young up and coming Hugh Grant for Augustus . So yeah if they make the movie,it'll go how it always goes, which is that we'll all find out about the casting .  We'll all be upset about it, and then we'll go to the movie, and we'll be like  " Oh my god !  Jennifer Lawrence was the perfect Katniss !  "  and then we'll be in love with Jennifer Lawrence but not in a creepy way .  .  .  although we do follow her tag on Tumblr he said referring to himself in the first person plural . Q; How do I gently tell a boy that I'm not romantically interested in him ? A: I have exactly one piece of relationship advice .  USE .  YOUR .  WORDS . Hank, DFTBA !  I have to go give a speech to some librarians but I will see you on Friday !  .  .  .  Scary . Ahhhhhh why does it move so much ?                 
Good Morning Hank, it's Tuesday . I spent last week in New York City, at Book Expo America, which is essentially like the VidCon of book publishing . Immediately upon arriving at BEA, I saw the author and publisher of the forthcoming Reached trapped inside a bubble, and then Olivia walked by, who in real life is much taller, and less talkative than you'd expect -- and I knew I was in for a celebrity fest . Hank, in BEA, it feels like the world treats books the way they usually treat, like, iPads .  Witness for instance this mad dash for advanced readers copies of an anticipated first novel . Or, this entire staircase devoted to the work of Cassandra Clare .  There were huge banners advertising Libba Bray's new book .  And there was also quite a bit of attention for The Fault in our Stars,  " Vanna White'd "  here by the extraordinary Elyse Marshall . Incidentally, someone listed  " The Fate in our Stars "  as their favorite book of the moment; I corrected them . So I was at BEA to do some interviews and signings, and also to reveal the new cover for An Abundance of Katherines, which was designed by 17 year old long time nerdfighter Sarah Turbin -- her Tumblr's in the dooblydoo   .  Sarah and I got to hang out for a little while, and then she had to leave because it was her prom night . I also had to give a couple speeches, one of which involved me hanging out not only with Lois Lowry and Kadir Nelson, but also with Golden Globe winner Chris Colfer, who turned out to be an extraordinarily nice, and generous, and quick-witted person .  I'll get back to Colfer in a minute .  But first I went to a lunch featuring many great writers, including Tea Obreht, and, and, and Jeffery Eugenides, one of the two authors, the other being Michael Shay, that who made me really want to be a writer when I read their books in high school .  I spent about ten minutes filming Mr .  Eugenides from the back before I got up the courage to shake his hand and then I made a total ass out of myself of course .  And then I met a bunch of nerdfighters, one of whom gave me a Sing-a-ma-jig with a star covering its genitalia, I got to hang out with Chris Colfer, I spoke to an enormous room full of people, and then I ate dinner with the brilliant Shannon Hale and M .  T .   Anderson with whom I once broke into abandoned buildings in Detroit .  I love M .  T .   Anderson, he always speaks in full and beautiful sentences like,  " Whenever anyone criticizes the intelligence of a character in a book I always feel like it's a huge f-you to all the teen intellectuals who already have their peers crapping on them .  "  And then after dinner, I found myself on a very strange elevator .   And then I was atop this skyscraper . I don't want to get too specific right now but I'm peeing, and this is my view .  What ! Later this room would contain not only Chris Colfer, but also Tony Danza, John Hodgman, some SNL cast members, two real housewives of New York and/or New Jersey, a mob wife, and the great writer Darin Strauss, who wrote Chang and Eng, the book that introduced me to conjoined twins literature . As I geeked out while talking to Mr .  Strauss, I realized that even though I liked Chris Colfer a great deal, I hadn't felt nearly so nervous around him .  He was just a guy -- albeit an uncommonly handsome and well-dressed one -- but around Eugenides or Darin Strauss, I was shaking .  In our hyper-secular world, worship is still inevitable, but it's vital to remember that our gods don't choose us; we choose them .  I could have chosen a mob wife -- sure glad I chose Eugenides . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .      So on Friday, you asked nerdfighters to share their problems with us and with each other, and they did so and I am here to help !  As the poet hath wrote:  " If you got a problem, yo, I'll solve it .  "  Let's get right to it !     - " My laptop overheats so I can't play games .  "   You probably just need to clean your laptop's fan, but if that doesn't work, behold !  A beautiful twenty dollar cooling pad .     - " I feel that spiders are a big problem in the world .  "   Well, the lack of spiders would be a much bigger problem, but anyway, the solution to your problem is 192 pages long, and it is beautiful, and it is called  " Charlotte's Web .  "  Read it immediately .     - " I'm scared of the dark .  "   Yeah, well, you should be .  It's terrifying !  Just be grateful you're not a vampire !     - " My biggest problem is my sister .  She is annoying & a vampire .  "   Yeah, well, to be fair, she's probably annoying BECAUSE she's a vampire; vampires don't have it easy - even the sparkly kind have their struggles .   So you have to find a way to put yourself in your sister's vampiric shoes .  The two keys to sibling vampiric relationships: Number One, empathy, Number Two, no biting .     - " I hate when you're about to sit on the one seat left on the bus, and then someone takes the seat .  "   Right, so the thing to do in that situation is to assume, even if it's improbable, that that person needs the seat more than you do .  It may not be true, but it will be very helpful to you in terms of keeping sane, particularly, like, in parking lots around Christmas .     - " My clothes dryer just set off my fire alarm .  Dear alarm, WORK BETTER !  "   Ok, so I'm just going to throw this out there: I'd be more worried about the dryer than the alarm, because it seems to me that the alarm is working perfectly .     - " I never know what to do, and I always invent a reason not to do stuff .  "   Yeah, this is a common problem, because the easiest thing for us to do is the thing that we are currently doing, which is usually nothing .   But I have three quick suggestions: One, go to an art museum by yourself; Two, read some poetry; Three, using Google Maps, find a nearby park that has some walking trails and then walk around them doing amateur bird-watching, but inventing names for each of the birds you discover .     - " MY CAPSLOCK KEY IS BROKEN .  "   OH GOD, PANIC !  No, just kidding .  If you have a Mac, you can disable your caps lock button in System Preferences, and if you have a PC you should get the free application Key Tweak   .     - " I have stairs that have an open space between the steps, and I'm scared that someone's going to grab my ankles .  "   Yeah, I'm not sure I see that as a problem .  Let's suppose somebody does grab your ankles .  All they have is your ankles .  You can still reach into your pocket and call 911, and if, in the meantime, they want to come get you, they have to come out from under the staircase and run up the stairs, during which time you can run up the stairs, lock the door on them, and leave them there until the police come .  Frankly, of all the possible home intruder outcomes,  " grabbed by the ankle "  is like, the best !     - " The book store in my mall closed down, and it was replaced by an eyebrow design store .  "   Wow, that is depressing .  I have two solutions: First, design your own eyebrows, and Second, buy books at bookstores !  If you want bookstores to exist, support them .  The way that you spend your money shapes the world in which we live .      - " Hufflepuff discrimination .  "   Yeah, I know right ?   But Hufflepuff don't care .     - " My problem is a lack of community for beginning writers .  "   Check out figment . com   .     - " It's much easier to watch from afar than to participate in things .  "   That's true, but it's a lot more fun to participate, so here are three easy ways to be nerdfightastic: One, if you haven't joined kiva . org, you can still make your first loan to an entrepreneur in the developing world for free .  There is a link- woahWOAHWOAH !  Woah woah, link .  .  .  in the doobaly-doo .  Almost went down there, but I didn't .  Two, you can read Fahrenheit 451, and Three, why not take a few minutes to respond to some comments with niceness ?  Being nice is surprisingly entertaining .     - " I have spelling problems that limit how nerdy I can be .  "   I totally disagree with your premise- my brother is a terrible speller, and a tremendous nerd .     - " I'm an older nerdfighter .  "   Yes, so am I .  To help you feel less alone, I have created a Facebook group for us, there's a link in the doobaly-doo .     - " I can't find nerdfighters who live in my area .  "   You should look on Facebook and in the Ning and in Your Pants  , because there are a lot of location-specific nerdfighter groups .      - " I have a slight fear of being drowned by mermaids .  "   Nah, don't worry about that, you'll be fine !  Well, until the human voices wake you .     Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday .  VidCon is this week; in a related story  " Haaahhhh "  is the sound that my anxiety makes .   So Hank I'm in a hotel in Canada at a conference about educational video, featuring, like, CGP Grey and Vsauce and MinutePhysics and Vi Hart .  Tons of fascinating people !    But Hank, the operative word there is  " Canada "  because as you remember from the last time that we went to Canada, it is not easy for me to get into Canada .   Right, so this happens every time I come to Canada, but I fly in, I have my customs forms filled out, I get in line, and then I am sent to like the special immigration office for felons and other undesirables .    And then I am asked if I have ever been denied entrance to Canada before .   And I say yes: in 1995 I was denied entrance to your fine country due to insufficient funds .   So Hank, this was in the halcyon days before teenagers had credit cards and when I was a freshman in college a friend of mine and I, we drove up to Windsor, Ontario    So we drove to Windsor with a two liter bottle of Mountain Dew, a loaf of bread, and some peanut butter .   And $14 .  I don't know by what definition that constitutes  " insufficient funds "  .  So we try to cross the border, they search our car for drugs, then they turn us around for insufficient funds .  We go back to America where they again search our car for drugs, this time for 3 hours, even though we never got to Canada .    But it was fine .  We had a nice story when we got back to college:  " We were too poor for Canada .  "   And Hank, I've never had a problem getting into Canada until 2001, when suddenly my name appeared on a list of undesirables .    And now every single time I go to Canada I am forced to explain again that in 1995 I was deemed insufficiently wealthy to visit this great nation .  Oh, and they search my bags and let me go on my way .   So anyway, today I asked the guy,  " Is this going to last forever ?  Is there any way I can clear my name, make a donation to your healthcare system, or something that will allow me not be on the list ?  "   And he said, and I'm quoting him directly here, Hank,  " Mr .  Green, you're going to die on that list .  "   So, Hank, that's my story on how I became undesirable to Canadians .  Canadians, perhaps this helps you understand why I don't tour here more often .  Also, nerdfighters, if history tells us anything, it's that Hank will fail to upload his video on Friday due to VidCon stress .  So prepare your punishment ideas and leave them in comments !  Did I say comets or comments ?  I really don't enunciate very well for an ostensibly professional video blogger .                 
Good morning, Hank; it's Tuesday .  Let's talk about the first part of Fahrenheit 451, the famous temperature at which love boils .  No, it's the temperature at which books burn ?     So Fahrenheit 451 introduces us to Guy Montag, who's just a regular guy .  He's a fireman, he likes to fill his fire hose up with kerosene and then spew it all over books and burn them to maintain social stability, he hangs out with other firemen and a mechanized dog who is both alive and dead, and then afterword he goes home to his house, which is likened to a mausoleum .  I match the wall, by the way; that's probably not good .  I'll try to stay over here so you know that I have a torso .     Anyway, his wife Mildred is also described as both alive and dead .  She spends her days and nights listening to and watching mindless entertainment .   And she attempts suicide but she is saved by this mechanical snake-like thing that goes into her belly and sucks out all the poison .  That snake, incidentally - also described as both alive and dead .  In fact, everything is both alive and dead in Fahrenheit 451 .  When an old woman makes it clear that she'd rather die than live without her books, the fire captain Beatty says, 'The people in those books never lived . '  But of course the people in this book never really live, either !     Mildred lives vicariously through this entertainment that's so mindless that five minutes later she can't even remember what it was about .  The firemen just live for the cheap thrill of watching things burn .  Mildred and Guy can't even remember how they met !     At one point, these fighter jets blow past and Montag is described as feeling as if those jets pulverized the stars .  I think the message is pretty clear there, Hank .  Technology has pulverized our nature .      But of course Montag is shaken out of his life thinking little at all about nothing in particular by Clarisse, this beautiful teenager who sees everything Clear-isse-ly .  She literally reminds Montag about the natural world - she smells like apricots, her face is like snow in the moonlight .   But she also re-introduces Montag to the world of nature and natural experience, eventually literally making him taste the rain .     Incidentally 'taste the rain' would be a great euphemism, but I don't know for what .  Maybe it would be a good catch-phrase if I ever become like a professional wrestler named The Rain .  Like 'Get ready to taste The Rain ! ' It's not good; I'm not going to become a professional wrestler .  I need to just accept it .      And then, of course, after Guy tastes the rain Clarisse disappears, presumably dead, in the great tradition of the Manic Pixie Dream Girl, but she's already changed him .   And he is collecting books that he ought to be burning which threatens not just his career as a firefighter but also, you know, his life .     So, Hank, one of the weird things about dystopian fiction is that it has a way of coming true .  So I just want to establish right now that if there is ever a Hunger Games, I will not be volunteering as tribute on your behalf .   And Fahrenheit 451 is perhaps the most dramatic example of this in our literature .  So let's have some historical context .     Ray Bradbury wrote this book in a library on a typewriter that cost 20 cents an hour to rent .  Which might be why it's so short .  He also wrote it in a time when mass media didn't really have that much mass .  At the time, only about a million American households had televisions, and for several hours each day in most markets, literally nothing was on TV because presumably they didn't have Simpsons reruns yet .     Today, of course, the average American watches 150 hours of TV each month and in the average American household, just like Guy Montag's house, there are more TVs than people .     We also go outside far less than we did in Bradbury's day, and when we do go outside we often insert these little machines into our ears so we can hear more interesting sounds than birdsong .     Now we don't burn books but we do read fewer of them every year .  Bradbury predicted all of these changes and he also predicted that the change, if I may quote Captain Beatty, 'didn't come from the Government down .  There was no dictum, no declaration, no censorship, to start with, no ! ' We made the world in which we live, not some all-powerful Other .     So Hank it seems to me that Fahrenheit 451 is an old-fashioned novel of ideas like Jonathan Livingston's Seagull or The Fountainhead, and usually those books really annoy me because they're not really about book-burning firemen, they're really about the perils and privileges of technology or whatever .   But here, even though I do find the character of Clarisse totally unconvincing, I really love this book because it is profoundly unsettling .     Have we replaced intellectual engagement with superficial browsing ?  Is it really possible to pay sustained attention in a world full of distractions, a world where we can watch an episode of CSI and three months later watch it again and not be sure if we've seen it before ?     Actually, let me put that question a different way .  When do you feel least like you are wasting your life ?     Maybe that's different for everyone .  Like, I'm not Clarisse .  I like nature but it doesn't make me feel particularly alive .  It mostly makes me feel super conscious of the fact that mosquitoes carry the West Nile Virus .     For me, I feel most alive when I'm having conversations with family and friends about stuff that matters to me .  Like now, for instance .  This is making me feel alive .     I don't know what you thought of the book or what makes your life feel meaningful, but I'd like to know .  I'd like to continue the conversation so I can continue to feel alive and not like Guy Montag .     So Nerdfighters I'll see you in comments and Hank, I will see you on Friday .     Oh, hey, P . S . - The new episode of Crash Course: World History is about the surprisingly complicated and fascinating story of slavery .  Also last week I did the cinnamon challenge while discussing the Colombian Exchange, so check that out .  You can click the screen now but not any later than now because the video's gonna end .                 
Good morning, Hank; it's Tuesday .   So recently I was talking to a producer from a cable channel that shall remain nameless and he was like, 'I love Crash Course and you guys should make a TV show .  The only thing is that if you're gonna be on television, you gotta talk about stuff that people enjoy, like Hitler .   And sex . '  True story, Hank .  So I thought I'd make a pilot for him .   Dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun HITLER AND SEX !   So among Nazi troops, syphilis was a big problem in occupied France, and Hitler had a solution, which was to send blow-up sex dolls to the army .  They were smaller than life size, but they were blow-up sex dolls, very Aryan looking, and they were designed to be able to, like, fold them up and put them in your backpack .  It probably goes without saying that the idea was eventually abandoned because the troops were like, 'Actually, we just prefer syphilis . '  Dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun HITLER AND SEX !   So there have been many rumors about Hitler's sex life over the years, mainly thought up by Allied propaganda for the purposes of discrediting him .  Are they true ?  Probably not, but we're going to repeat them anyway because this is a television show .   The longest standing story is that Hitler was secretly gay, a case made by the 1995 book The Pink Swastika, which basically argued that all of Nazism was like an extension of the homosexual agenda .  That argument is a little bit problematic because one, 100,000 people were arrested in Nazi Germany for being gay, two, many of those people were killed in concentration camps, and three, the prominent Nazis who were actually gay ?  Generally executed .   So was Adolf Hitler secretly gay ?  Let's watch two minutes of commercials before I say no .   Dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun HITLER AND SEX !   So the truth is that by most accounts Hitler was a pretty vanilla, heterosexual guy .  So why would a bunch of male, heterosexual historians want to paint him as different ?  Your guess is as good as mine .    But more importantly, did Hitler have one testicle ?  Let's find out after the break .   Dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun HITLER AND SEX !   No, Hitler probably had two testicles, at least according to his personal physician .   But bringing this up allows me to share with you one of my favorite words in the English language, monorchid, which means an individual with only one testicle .  Actual prominent monorchids include Mao Zedong, Lance Armstrong, Hermann Goring, and the drummer from Green Day .   Dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun HITLER AND SEX !   So Hitler, this probably goes without saying, was not a very good boyfriend .  He was controlling and possessive and domineering; he was basically all the hallmarks of the abusive relationship .   And, in fact, of the six women that Hitler most likely had sex with, four of them committed suicide .  They included his half-niece Geli, the British woman Unity Mitford, Renata Muller, and of course Hitler's longtime lover Eva Braun, whom he married just 40 hours before they committed suicide together .   Of the two remaining most likely lovers, one, Maria Reiter, attempted to kill herself in the midst of her breakup with Hitler and the other, Erna Hanfstaengl, tried to kill Hitler or at least to overthrow him in 1943 .  So yes, dating Hitler was clearly not the key to happiness .   Dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun HITLER AND SEX !   Why yes, I did say half-niece earlier; Hitler's half-niece lived with him for two years, during which time he grew increasingly possessive and crazy .  He forced her to cut off all contact with her friends, and she eventually committed suicide .  I wish that story were unique .    But the truth is domestic abuse is disgustingly common, and this is yet another example of Hitler being tragically unextraordinary .   Hank, a real, accurate television show about Hitler and sex would be boring and sad because Hitler's sex life was boring, and the awful way he treated the women he loved was not unique or even rare .  All the essentializing and sensationalizing of these stories is designed to make us feel comfortable, to make us feel like we aren't like 'those people' .  We want to feel fundamentally different from the people who participate in genocide .   But of course, that's not the truth, Hank .  The truth, whether TV executives want to accept it or not, resists simplicity .  I think I'll stick with YouTube .   Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Oh, good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  As you might notice, I'm here in my new office, and I'm walking on my treadmill desk .  Why did I get a treadmill desk ?  Well, two reasons, Hank .  First, I am a nerd, and I heard that you could level up in your nerdiness by getting a treadmill desk, so I was like, alright . To talk about the second reason, we need to go back in time to Memorial Day weekend, when you and I went to the beach together .  Now, Hank, you may remember that we ran into the ocean, both wearing our shirts to protect the public, and then we had an old fashioned noodle war, you know, like people in their 30s do, and in that noodle war, it was widely reported that you won .   But, in fact, you did not win, because as you can see right here, you abandoned your noodle, which is losing .  Anybody who abandons their noodle has lost the noodle war, that's the rules ! So just to be perfectly clear, I won the noodle war .  However, after I won the noodle war, you picked me up and slammed me into the water .   And at some point when you were lifting this nearly 200 pound mass and slamming it into the water, I thought to myself, Hank has gotten kind of fit lately .   And, Hank, it turns out that over the last several months, you've quietly been doing this exercise regimen that has resulted in you becoming kind of buff .  In fact, several people commented about it on your last video . Now, I didn't get this treadmill desk just because you got fit and I'm jealous, but I'm not going to deny it, Hank, I was partly inspired by my Memorial Day dunking .  Also, third reason, Hank, as you know, I'm obsessed with all the ways that in trying to save ourselves, we kill ourselves, like, all the ways we act irrationally about health .  For instance, Hank, I'm a big fan of hand sanitizer, but sometimes I use hand sanitizer while I'm driving, and that's not rational, because I'm creating more risk for myself by using the hand sanitizer than I would if I just drove . Anyway, Hank, it turns out that people who sit more than 11 hours a day are twice as likely to die from all causes over the next 15 years than people who sit for less than four hours a day .  Well, Hank, I don't need to tell you why this is a concern to me, I live on the internet, the world capital of sitting .  Initially, I thought this might not be a problem, because I usually don't sit, I recline .   But it turns out reclining counts as sitting .  Sitting too much increases your risk of like, heart attack, diabetes, certain kinds of cancer, so I was like, I'm not going to do it anymore, Hank, I'm going to be a stander, I'm going to be a stander and a walker !  My entire new novel is going to be written while walking .  Or this will just end up like all the other fitness crap in my basement . Hank, DFTBA, congratulations on your new-found, you know .  I'll see you on Friday . Alright, Hank, I'm happy, so I'm going to try this, don't try this at home,  , YES !  Whoo .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday . Today's video comes to you in two parts . Part One: I have a dream .  As I was watching all the Olympic athletes walk into the stadium during the opening ceremonies, you know what I was thinking, Hank ?  I was thinking  " That should be me !  "  That's right, Hank, I'm a 34-year-old man, according to my BMI I'm 1 . 6 pounds overweight and I wanna be an Olympian . Now I know what you're saying, Hank .  Walking on a treadmill desk does not qualify me to be an Olympian and in fact you're probably saying:  " John you're too old for the Olympics !  "  Well, no I'm not, Hank .  Hiroshi Hokestu, a Japanese horse riding person is 71 years old and he's in the Olympics !  Admittedly, he first qualified for the Olympics in 1964 and I don't know how to ride a horse but still, it's possible .  But then you might say:  " John, you can't be in the Olympics .  You're a nerdfighter .  Nerds aren't Olympians !  "  Oh yes, they are .  Hank, there's at least one known Olympian nerdfighter .  Jennifer Pinches, a gymnast representing Great Britain, who just did the nerdfighter sign in front of the world after an awesome floor exercise .  DFTBA Jennifer !  I would show you the footage of this momentous occasion but unfortunately the IOC would then come to my house and steal my baby .  That's the rule .  If you violate their copyright, they take your baby . Now lastly, Hank, you're probably saying:  " Well, both Hiroshi Hoketsu and Jennifer Pinches are good at something athletic and you're not and never have been .  "  Fair enough .  So obviously I'm gonna have to be an Olympian for a team sport because I'm gonna be the worst player on the team .  What sport ?  Men's team handball .  Which happens to be the only big Olympic sport in which the US doesn't field a team . Now obviously, Hank, I'm never gonna field a men's team handball team good enough to win a medal - there are a lot of good handball teams out there - but I don't have to .  All I have to do is build a men's Olympic handball team that's good enough to qualify for the Olympics .  So I figure I get some passionate, washed-up basketball players, I get them all treadmill desks, we get the working out all the time, we get the big muscles and throwing the handballs that we just- we qualify .  Then they make a movie about us that would be like  " Cool Runnings meets dodgeball "  .  I already have the Hollywood pitch line .  All I'm lacking really is like the teammates and the motivation and the understanding of how you qualify for the Olympics - this is probably never going to happen .  But I do wanna congratulate Jennifer Pinches on being awesome and living her dream .  I'm so proud of Jennifer Pinches !    I'm so, so proud . By the way, if you wanna know why I have these binoculars, it's because there's a strange semi-aquatic mammal that periodically appears outside my office window .  I think it's possibly some kind of secret agent .   But anyway, I'm trying to identity whether he's an otter or a musk rat . Part Two: Hank, Friday is Esther Day, the most important holiday in Nerdfighteria .  It's the day that we honor our friend Esther who inspired so much of The Fault In Our Stars and inspires so much of Nerdfighteria and we honor her by telling the people in our life whom we love that we love them . This year, Esther's family is having an awesome Esther Day event in Quincy, Massachusetts .  There's a link in the dooblydoo to find out more; you should totally go, there's gonna be a ton of nerdfighters there .   And you can also be part of a T-Shirt design contest with  " This Star Won't Go Out " , the organization that Esther's family set up in her memory .  You can learn more about that in the dooblydoo . Hank, I just love Esther Day and I'm so grateful to Esther for giving us the gift of making us say to each other  " I love you "  . I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday ! Today I'd like to deliver an open letter to students returning to school . Dear Students returning to school, not to speed your re-entry into formal education with a pop quiz, or anything, but in what year do you think primary education became mandatory for all American children ? 1918 .  Germany had primary compulsory education from the late 18th century in Japan thanks to the reforms by 1900 90% of Japanese kids were in school .  In England it happened around 1880, but regardless of where you live, primary education became a requirement sometime after 1775 .  That probably seems like a long time ago to you, but if you look at, like, human history since the agricultural revolution, the entire period of time that has featured compulsory education anywhere in the world looks like this .  You'll also note that this 250 year period has been a pretty good run for humans featuring, you know, steam engines, the internet, antibiotics, skyscrapers a stunning increase in life expectancy, home pizza delivery, water purification plants, and landing a freaking mini cooper on mars . Needless to say this is not a coincidence .  Take for example Adam Steltzner, the lead engineer on the Curiosity Rover's Decent and Landing Team .  He went to a publicly funded high school before getting both his bachelors degree and his doctorate from publicly subsidized universities .  So let me ask you a question students about to return to school: How fracking psyched are you for the end of summer ?  How psyched are you to have the opportunity to learn about the universe and its inhabitants for several hours a day at no cost to you ?  The answer of course is that if you're anything like I was you're not psyched at all, I mean, A . ) you might be a bit of a social outcast, I know I was, I never really learned how to shave and that's fine now but back then when I had the Sony my first mustache it was just a disaster . and B . ) you may often feel like your studies are mind numbing instead of mind stimulating .  Like, who wants to read The Taming of the Shrew, you basically have to translate it from Shakespeare into English, which is ridiculous because there's already an excellent filmic translation available in the form of 10 Things I Hate About You . So, if you're anything like me, you're going to spend a lot of time whining that 1 . ) none of this will ever be useful in your real life and 2 . ) your teachers are stupid, and 3 . ) math is really hard, and you'll never understand it, ditto physics, history is boring, French is just an endless series of je ne sais pas, literature is an impossible hunt for symbols, and physical education is an oxymoron . Well here's the thing, when you watch the Curiosity rover land it is far more moving and exciting if you understand the physics, and the math, and the history behind that moment .  French is useful because the French do speak English but they pretend not to, and it's not only literature that's symbolic, all communication among people is symbolic, as is consciousness itself, and physical education is not an oxymoron because your body is not born knowing how to do this  .  But yes, your teachers may be stupid .  So are you, so am I, so are everyone  .  Except Neil DeGrasse Tyson .  The whole pleasure in being a human is in being stupid but learning to be less stupid together .  But more important than all of that you need to remember that school is not about you .  School doesn't exist for your benefit or for the benefit of your parents .  Schools exist for the benefit of me .  The reason I pay taxes for schools even though I don't have a kid in school is that I am better off in a well-educated world .  Public education isn't a charity project; I pay for your schools because I want you to grow up and make my life better .  I want you to make me beautiful books that will bring me pleasure and consolation .  I want you to make me cooler cars for me to drive, and drugs so that I can live a longer, healthier life .  I'm paying for you education in the hopes that you will invent a microwave pizza with actually crispy crust and that you'll spread the availability of the internet so I can get more YouTube views in Zambia . Your education isn't just about you, your nation is making an investment in you because they believe that you are worth it .  So the next that you're like half asleep fantasizing about being a kid chosen for a special mission or wizard school, or whatever, please remember something: you are special, and you've chosen for a special mission that was denied to 99 . 9% of all humans ever .  We need you, we believe in you, and we're counting on you . Best wishes,John Green Hank, quick post script for people nerdy enough to be interested in education outside of class please check out Crash Course and SciShow our educational initiatives link in the doobly-doo .  And for those of you nerdy enough to dream about being a time nanny for an evil baby orphanage, I have great news .  A professional gaming company is kick-starting and evil baby orphanage card game .  It looks really cool so check that out as well, link in the doobly-doo . Hank, congratulations on Curiosity not crashing into Mars .  I know that's like the highlight of your year .  I will see you on Fri- .                   
Good morning Hank, it's Monday .  So like Ze Frank and Wheezy Waiter I recently had the opportunity to talk to Rainn Wilson, and since I've always felt in my heart that Rainn Wilson would give really good romantic advice, I chose to ask twitter if they had romantic problems that we could potentially solve together .   And they did .   J: I just got dumped .  Not me .  Person I'm quoting .   " I just got dumped .  What do ?  "   R:  " I think that euh, first of all, it is important to feel the feelings around getting dumped .  Uhm, people say like  " oh you gotta get back on your feet and you gotta get out there and just do something fun and see your friends and remember what life's all about .  "   But there is a grieving process .  It is the death of something .  It is the death of a relationship .  There is pain with that .  You have to experience that pain .  You have to fully process it .  You can't really move on until you've felt those feelings .   And then you can move on in a lot of different ways .   But if you move on before you've processed it, it's gonna be like a little euhm, if they like-- I had a doctor like had to take out a cyst out of my scalp .  I had like a cyst in my scalp .  They have to make sure they get it all cause then it can like grow back .  It means you didn't get all of the stuff out of your cyst .   J: It's a fantastic analogy for me because I recently had a cyst drained by my doctor .   And he drained it into a cup just so he could have the pleasure of showing me all the stuff that was inside of my cyst .   R: Where was your cyst ?   J: Right here, on the inside of my arm   This is, by the way, this is what old people talk about .   R: Their cysts ?   J: How we drain our cysts .   R: I got a story, I got a medical story that's gonna blow that out of the water .  Are you ready ?   J: I'm ready .   R: I had my scrotum drained .   J: Oh boy .   R: I was collecting water in one of my scrotums, and so one of my ballsacks was way bigger than the other ballsack .  It was like a golf ball and a baseball .   J: Oh my gosh .   R: At first, the doctor did a syringe .     J:    R: It was like 8 ounces .   J: Oh ho ho .     R:  But you know what ?  It filled back up .  It's called a hydrocele, look it up .  Hydrocele .  C-E-L-E  And then I had to go under the knife, and get it -- they had to take a membrane out of my scrotum .   But everything's fine, now .  You should see it .  In fact-    J: Yeah, no .  .  .  Yesss !   J: When we started this conversation, Rainn, the one thing that I was confident about was that we were not going to discuss scrotal swelling .  So that just goes to show you that life is full of beautiful surprises .   R: That's right, you gotta roll with it .  I think we learned a very valuable life lesson and that's what happens when you get dumped: you just gotta roll with it .  Bring it all back together .   J:   That's good advice !  I remember when -- I got dumped when I was like 22, and it was really devastating to me, and I said to someone I cared about:  " I don't understand why this hurts so much .  "   And she said:  " it hurts because it mattered .  "   R: Wow .   J: It was a huge thing for me to realize, that uhm, you know, there are things in life that hurt and they hurt because they were important .   And as you say, it's a real loss and one that needs to be grieved .   J: Well, I really appreciate you taking the time and giving us such amazingly good advice .  Check out SoulPancake at soulpancake . com, youtube . com/soulpancake It's really, really interesting stuff and I'm really excited that, euhm, you're bringing this important voice to YouTube .   R: Well thank you !  Euhm, you know, we do this all the time at SoulPancake: we talk about life's big questions and uhm we're gonna be exploring a lot of that stuff on our new YouTube channel .  Do you have any YouTube channel pointers ?   J: Yeah, I mean, the thing that's worked best for us is just to use Giraffe Sex as the thumbnail .   R: Hey, you know what the world's most dangerous animal is ?   J: Hmmm, man ?   R:    J:    R:   Let's not say anything else .  Let's walk away from this interview .   J: Alright .   R: Seriously, I- seriously, speak of my love: I - I love you .   J: I - I love you back, Rainn Wilson .  As we say in my home town: don't forget to be awesome .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .    Evil Baby Orphanage Genghis Khan . So last night, longtime nerdfighter Roxin Punch posted this to her Tumblr: " I keep going through college degrees and the jobs you could land with them and I just keep going back to how overpriced it all is .  Is it even worth it ?  " That's a really interesting question, not just to prospective college students but also to people in their mid-thirties still paying off their college loans, so let's examine it ! Now of course most people outside the United States will be like  " Of course university is worth it .  University is free !  "  or at least very inexpensive .  .  . We also have subsidized education here in the United States, but it's much LESS subsidized .  So here, if you live in Indiana, for instance, Indiana University costs about $10,000 but if you don't live in Indiana it costs about $30,000 a year . So is it worth it ?  Well, let's say you spend $100,000 on college, including, like, $60,000 in student loans .  With interest, you're going to pay about $80,000 on those student loans, so the total college cost will be about $120,000 .  Except you also will have spent a lot of time, writing papers and attending classes and going to supposedly epic frat parties that are never actually very fun because even as you're dancing and drinking and talking to vaguely attractive strangers, there's this omnipresent gnawing feeling in your gut that nothing means anything and you feel this endless existential isolation .  .  . was that just me ? Right, so anyway, you're doing all of THAT when you might be working, that's called opportunity cost .  On the other hand, the $80,000 that you spend will actually be slightly less than $80,000 would have been because of inflation .  .  . I'm going to ballpark here and just say that your college cost is like $140,000 in this example .  But then you have fifty-ish years of labor force drudgery to look forward to .  Now again, we have to deal with inflation and stuff, but let's just say that if you make $175,000 more than you would have made then college was  " worth it .  " So how much in per-hour earnings does a college degree have to generate in order to be worth it ?  About a dollar seventy-five .  So over the course of your career, if you make thirteen dollars an hour on average when you would have otherwise made $11 . 25, college has paid for itself .   And so most studies show that college is still very much worth it, although I should note that there are some for-profit universities and misleading vocational training programs that probably aren't worth it .   But assuming you go to a reasonably good accredited university, there are two things that are true: one,it is criminally overpriced, and two, it is probably still worth it .  But Hank, my problem is, that calculation assumes that human life is a purely economic phenomenon .  It isn't .  Let me give you an example . As you know Hank, a long time ago I worked the graveyard shift at Steak and Shake and I made about fourteen dollars an hour on average .  It was a great job with good benefits, there was even a stock buying program which is why I still own fifteen shares of Steak and Shake stock .   But about once a week at about three or three-thirty in the morning, I would walk into the bathroom, and even though the toilet was fully functional, I noticed there was vomit in the urinal .  Now Hank, I don't know if you've ever cleaned a stranger's vomit out of a urinal, but let me assure you that the most intense games of rock, paper, scissors I will ever play were played to decide who was going to be on vomit urinal duty . After graduating from college, I actually started making about a dollar per hour less when I started working as an assistant at Booklist magazine, but the job was better in every way .  I was surrounded by books and people who love them, I had opportunities for advancement, and in six years of working there I never once saw vomit in the urinal ! Hank, it's been my experience that maximizing income is a hell of a lot less important than maximizing passion and fulfillment in your life, both professionally and personally .  When I was in college, I remember fearing that the dreary grind of adulthood would feature, like, infinitely more existential dread than frat parties had, but the opposite has been true for me .  I'm much less likely to feel that gnawing fear of aimlessness and nihilism than I used to be, and that is partly because education gave me job opportunities, but it's mostly because education gave me perspective and context . Whether you're studying electrical engineering or poetry, college is not finally about maximizing income, it's about becoming a better and more informed observer of the universe .   And for me at least, that's what leads to a more fulfilling life . Hank, in a world where about half of humans live on less than two dollars and fifty cents a day, the opportunity to learn and study in a formal, dedicated way is still a gift .  Even if it has become a very expensive one .  I'll see you on Friday .  
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  Evil Baby Lady Bath-ory .  Today's video is like the ancient Egyptian concept of the soul: it comes to you in 5 parts .   Part 1: The candle .  So Hank, this is my first novel, Looking for Alaska, and as you can see, here on the cover there is a tiny candle that has apparently been extinguished, leading to an improbable amount of smoke .  The original cover design of Looking for Alaska had no such candle, it was just the smoke, but then certain book store chains were like,  " That looks like cigarette smoke .  "   And then Penguin was like,  " Yeah, that's 'cause it is cigarette smoke .  "   And they were like,  " Well we can't feature a book with cigarette smoke on the cover !  " , and that's why there was always a candle on the cover of Looking for Alaska, until now !   This fancy new hardcover of Looking for Alaska with no candle is part of the amazing box set that Karen Kavett designed .  Which also has hardcovers of the new Paper Towns design and Nerdfighter Sarah Turbin's amazing Katherines design .  Hank, to be honest with you I always sort of hated the candle so this is, like, incredibly good news for me because I've spent the last 7 and a half years looking at this book and thinking,  " Yeah, I'm proud of you, but I hate the candle !  "   Part 2: TFIOS covers .  Hank, The Fault in Our Stars is now out in many other languages including Bulgarian, Danish, German, Dutch, Spanish, Catalan, European Portuguese, Brazilian Portuguese, Hebrew, and most importantly, Swedish !  Hank, I realize this'll probably be an unpopular opinion, but I freaking love the cover of the book I know as The Fault in Our Stars and the Swedes will know as Forr Eller Senare Exploderar Jag !   And yes, I know that's improper pronunciation .  I don't speak Swedish .  To quote the great Peter Van Houten,  " Who the hell speaks Swedish ?  "  Hank, I love this cover because it's the cover Augustus Waters would want: it's bold and weird and pulpy and all about love and death and grenades and sacrifice, it's just awesome !   But Hank, regardless of whether you like it, you have to admit that there's been tremendous change in the field of my foreign language covers, because none of those covers featured feet or whispering girls .  I mean look at my other books: feet, feet, feet, whispering girl, feet, feet, whispering girl, feet, feet, feet, whispering doll girl, you freak me out .   Part 3: Kiva .  Hank, as you know, you and I both have outstanding punishments, but we haven't actually done our punishments because, you know, punishments suck .  However, I am willing to make you a deal, Nerdfighteria .  If the Nerdfighter Kiva group gets to $1 million before Hank and I get to 1,000 videos, you can challenge both of us, we will do those challenges, and then the slate will be cleared .   And then we'll be rid of this whole failure to do the punishment thing, which I feel like has been a real roadblock in our relationship .  For those who don't know, Kiva is an amazing website that allows regular people like you and me to make loans to entrepreneurs in the developing world .  It's really really cool, and if you get to $1 million before we get to 1,000 videos, then you get to challenge us .  However, we might try to avoid punishment by making videos more often than usual .  B-b-b-b-b-but, if you don't get to $1 million before we get to 1,000 videos, then the punishment slate is wiped clean, we don't ever have to do those punishments .  Why is that the rule ?  Because I am the older brother and I make the rules to all the games .   Part 4: Homework .  Nerdfighters, finish Fahrenheit 451 by next Tuesday .    And part 5: Thank you .  Nerdfighters, thank you for submitting so many pictures of yourselves; Hank, thank you for turning those pictures into me, and also Bald John Green, the mustachioed protagonist of the Swindon Town Swoodilypoopers .  By the way, big game's coming up for the Swoodilypoopers; in fact, I need to go play .  I will see you on Friday !   And they were like,  " Well we can't feature a book with .  .  .  "    Evil Baby Lady Bath-ory .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  I was going to make a video about Fahrenheit 451, but then after your video on Friday, I was like, I'm gonna talk about the controversial rationale for why capital gains should be taxed at a lower rate than income, but all that is going to have to wait, because, Hank, there is a pressing question in our communities, specifically the question of where it is best not to vomit .   In a recent video, I talked about when I worked at Steak N Shake, and how I had to sometimes clean vomit out of urinals, and a Nerdfighter wrote 'worst place to puke EVER . ' Yeah, well, no .  In fact, let me submit that there are at least five worse places to vomit than in a urinal .   The worst place to vomit is clearly into your own lungs, because that can be fatal .  Aspiration of vomit is what killed Jimi Hendrix, but it's also killed lots of other nice people, so yeah, don't vomit into your lungs .   Okay, another place you don't want to vomit, and I have personal experience with this, is in a secret hiding place .  So, Hank, once when I was in high school, I was at a party, and for reasons that we don't need to get into, I needed to vomit .  Also for reasons we don't need to get into, but this is important to the story, I wasn't operating at like, 100% of my intellectual capacity, so I needed to throw up, but I didn't want anyone to know that I needed to throw up .   And this house had vents in the floor where the air conditioning came out of, so I found a quiet corner, and I took off one of those vents, and I puked into it .  Problem solved, right ?  Yeah, except not .  Because it turns out that when you puke into duct work, the smell of that puke, like, circulates through the entire home .  Also, it turns out that it's really hard to clean puke out of duct work, and sometimes part of the air ducts must be replaced at a cost of hundreds of dollars and you'll never guess who will be held financially responsible for that .  The puker, in my experience, the puker is held responsible .   Number three, you don't want to vomit in space .  Vomiting in space is a big problem, because your inner ear doesn't know what to do about the floaty-ness .  In fact, Titov became the second person in space and the first one to there .  The Soviets shut down their space program for a year because they couldn't figure out why space sickness was happening .  Lots of astronauts since have reported puking and obviously it's really gross if you don't get it in the bag because it's all .  .  . floaty .   But it can also be fatal if you vomit while wearing a spacesuit because of vomit aspiration, fortunately NASA has solved this problem by creating air currents around the face of the spacesuit that will push the vomit away .  I LOVE NASA !  Of course you still have to hang out with your puke as long as you're still in the spacesuit which only makes you more likely to keep puking .  I figure if you put me on a spacewalk for like 30 minutes, by the time I came back it would be like, half John-half vomit .   Number four, this also comes from my time working in restaurants .  You don't want to puke on a bathroom mirror .  I used to bus tables at this restaurant and one time somebody puked on the mirror and I had to clean it and I went in there and it's not that there's the puke there's also the reflection of the puke and this particular bathroom had a side mirror so there were like infinite reflections of the puke going on for eternity !   But then, of course as you're cleaning you've got your face reflected in the mirror and it's pot-marked with someone else's puke which makes you puke .   But you, having learnt your lesson in high school about where not to puke, puke IN THE TOILET LIKE A GROWN UP !  Sorr- I'm very passionate about this .    And lastly, the place aside from your own lungs that you want to puke the least: Onto another person .  Now Hank, you're probably sitting in Missoula thinking  " I've never puked on someone "  .  Well, I want you to do me a favor, call our parents and thank them .  Because you did puke on them .  .  . repeatedly !  I know this because children are always puking onto their parents .  Henry once puked into my half-open mouth !  I was just holding him up like this and I was like  " You are such a cute b- OH MY GOD WHAT JUST HAPPENED TO ME ?  !  "  .  Nerdfighters, just a word of advice whenever you're furious with your parents or you think they're terrible just remember .  .  .  You vomited on them; and they kept you .   So there you have it Hank .  Five places you really don't want to vomit .  For those Nerdfighters who've been like  " Are they only going to make like, profound videos now ?  "  How do you like these apples ?  Best wishes !  Hank, I'll see you on Friday !                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday . This is a ferris wheel from an abandoned socialist theme park in what was, until recently, East Germany . Both my computer and my camcorder are broken .  I made this with my phone and iMovie, like it's 2007 again or something . This ferris wheel hasn't had a motor in more than a decade; it's former owner is in prison for attempting to smuggle cocaine from Peru to Germany inside a carnival ride . and yet all these years later, the ferris wheel still spins, powered only by the wind, creaking like it contains lost souls . I am reminded of the great Robert Frost quote: 'In three words I can summarize everything I've learned about life: it .  goes .  on . ' " Change of angle .  On screen:  " Happy 999th video .  I'll see you on Friday .  "  Speech in background, seemingly in German .  Another change of angle .
Crowd: Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .   John Green: It's actually Sunday, but it will be Tuesday in the fullness of time .  Hank, as you can tell from the grey speckled walls behind me, in a stunning turn of events, I have found myself in an airport .   And as it happens, this airport offers its visitors, or as some would say, attacks its visitors with, an astonishing number of televisions .   And that makes me want to talk about the last half of Ray Bradbury's novel, Fahrenheit 451 .   So the second half of Fahrenheit 451 is often criticized for the deus ex machina arrival of Professor Faber, and also for its like, really overwrought symbols .   And, fair enough, you know, like when Granger wants to build a mirror factory at the end of the novel, it's hard to tell whether he's literally serious .  I mean, we've experienced tremendous depopulation and instability .  We shall build a mirror factory !   And then we will work on food and shelter !   Bu-bu-bu-but Hank, I still love this novel .  By the way, the people in the airport think that I'm crazy .  I love this novel because it's a book that as Professor Faber says of a different book, can go under the microscope .  They want me to be quiet, but I feel passionate about this .  For Professor Faber, and I would assume, for Ray Bradbury, it is those stories, the ones that can hold up to microscopic observation, that can fill us up and can fill us in .  Those are the stories that make us feel as Montag is always trying to feel, more alive .   Also, Hank, I love when Montag says, 'Nobody listens anymore .  I can't even talk to the walls because they're yelling at me . '  And sitting here in the airport today waiting for my delayed flight, I've become keenly aware that we literally do live in a world of shouty walls .   And if that isn't distracting enough, my phone contains the voices of billions on Twitter and Tumblr and Facebook .   But Montag is right when he says that nobody feels listened to, because too often, we don't listen to those voices on Twitter or Tumblr or Facebook, we just use them for distraction .   So, Hank, for a long time I've been arguing that the solution to the problem of living a superficially distractive life is books .   But I think I was wrong, and I'm not saying that just because I did recently read 50 Shades of Grey .  I've always argued that books, because they don't lend themselves to multi-tasking, are better equipped to force us to be quiet and contemplative and engaged, but in fact, I don't think that medium matters .  As Professor Faber puts it, take it where you can find it, in old phonograph records, in old motion pictures, and in old friends .  Look for it in nature, and look for it in yourself .   Now, admittedly, the 'it' in question is never really defined, but I think that 'it' is the ideas that offer us sustenance and intellectual engagement .   And here's the problem, Hank, almost by definition, those stories, whether they're in books or on TV or in movies or on YouTube, aren't distracting .  Or at least, they're not AS distracting as like, kittens on Rumbas or CSI or Die Hard 9 .   Now, that's not some statement to say that we should all be listening to Beethoven instead of The Mountain Goats, it's worth noting that Ray Bradbury wrote this book in a genre, science fiction, that is not traditionally associated with high culture ideas .   Anyways, Hank, all of this reminded me of something that David Foster Wallace wrote in his unfinished novel, The Pale King .  Maybe dullness is associated with psychic pain because something that's dull or opaque fails to provide enough stimulation to distract people from some other, deeper type of pain that is always there, if only in an ambient, low-level way, and which most of us spend nearly all of our time and energy trying to distract ourselves from feeling, or at least from feeling directly, or with our full attention .  Admittedly, the whole thing's pretty confusing and hard to talk about abstractly, but surely something must lie behind not just Muzak in dull or tedious places anymore, but now also actual TV in waiting rooms, supermarket checkouts, airport gates, SUV backseats, Walkman, iPods, Blackberries, cell phones that attach to your head, this terror of silence with nothing diverting to do .  I can't think anyone really believes that today's so-called 'information society' is just about information .  Everyone knows that it's about something else way down .  The truth is, Hank, 99 . 9% of the time I check my phone, it's not because I'm so busy I can't do it later, it's because on some level or another, I fear feeling that deeper type of omnipresent pain, that Wallace was writing about, and in order to be engaged, you have to first overcome that fear of engagement .  It's also true of romance, now that I think about it .  Ultimately, for me, Hank, Fahrenheit 451 isn't about censorship or the evils of television or building mirror factories, it's about what happens when people choose distraction over engagement, and for me, it was a real wake up call .  So thank you for the suggestion .  We are boarding the plane, YES !  I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank; it's Tuesday .     What do I have in common with a Catholic Priest ?   I'd just feel naked without my collar !     It's question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real Nerdfighters !   Just the one question today: I'm a college freshman .  How do I figure out what the hell to do with my life ?     Hank, we get some version of this question almost every day, but to answer the question I have to begin by disagreeing with it .     The whole  " what do I do with my life "  question implies that adulthood is this monolithic creature that, like, you acquire your job and your spouse and then you just ride it out until time's winged chariot shows up .     I thought this when I was younger too and it's not our fault because how does every single  " happily ever after "  movie end ?  With finding your one true love and kissing them !  Occasionally marrying them - at the very latest having a child with them .     Ninety-five percent of romantic stories end with partners committing to each other because everything after that is just the blank, terrifying morass of adulthood, this monotonous grind in which the only real excitement in your life is occasionally finding a truly ripe avocado at the grocery store .           And let me submit that one of the reasons you're so terrified about figuring out what you're going to do with your life, is that you think you're only going to be able to do one thing !  Like, if someone told you that in four years you were going to have to pick one musical note to listen to for the rest of your life, you would spend a lot of time being super anxious about which note to pick and the various tonal qualities of different notes !   But that's not what life is like !     You will always be figuring out what to do with your life, and you'll get to do lots of different things, and your decisions will be unmade by circumstance .  Like your wife gets a job in Kuala Lumpur, or you're staring at the night sky one night and decide to get a Ph . D in astrophysics, or your uncle dies and there's no one to take over his junkyard, or your little brother starts a frickin' video conference .     Just like your life now, adulthood will have all this tension between idealism and practicality, and you'll have to balance competing desires .  I mean give yourself some credit !  Even if you're fourteen or fifteen, you're already kind of doing adulthood !      But I think what actually scared me about choosing whether to go to school and what to study was that each time I made a decision, my options narrowed .  Right, like if you're pre-med you're probably not going to be a software designer, if you study archaeology you're probably not going to become an electrical engineer .   And there is something a little terrifying about the narrowing of those possibilities because you become aware that they will continue to narrow until you are dead   .      But here's the other thing: if you don't make decisions, the options still narrow !   And you don't have to do just one thing - you can be an electrical engineer who volunteers on archaeological digs .  William Carlos Williams was both a poet and a doctor, Julia Child, aside from being an extraordinary chef was also a freaking spy for the United States !     I mean, Hank, if you told my college self that I'd one day be a novelist with a side gig putting my mustachioed face on the torsos of strangers I would have been duly surprised .   And you studied organic fracking chemistry before writing songs about Harry Potter .     So here's my advice: study broadly and without fear .  Learn a language if you can because that will make your life more interesting .  Read a little bit every day .   But most importantly, try to surround yourself with people you like and make cool stuff with them .  In the end  , what you do isn't going to be nearly as interesting or important as who you do it with .   And Hank, that's why I always say that the best decision we made as video bloggers was also the first decision: to collaborate with each other .        Oh that sounds perilously close to me saying that I love my brother, so I need to cut the sentiment a little bit .  I need to think of something, like maybe I'll just be like  " he has, you have a stupid face, or something "  .  Yeah, that's good .        Hank, you have a stupid face .  I'll see you on Friday .                 
John Green: Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  It's actually Monday, but tomorrow is a travel day .  Oh, hi, there, half-finished 3 AM room service dinner .  Let's look outside and see where I am .  Apparently, I am in Paris, awesome !  Why is there a pool ?  Also, why is Italy across the street ?  AH, I'm in Las Vegas, aren't I ? Hank, as you well know, I have been to Las Vegas once before for my bachelor party, which we called 'Nerds do Vegas' .  Hank, I don't know if you've seen the movie 'The Hangover', but as I'm sure you remember, my bachelor party was the exact opposite of that .  However, Hank, when we were in Las Vegas, you DID gamble .  Hold on, I gotta buy a razor, walk with me, I should put on pants first . As I recall, you played a game called 'Casino War' .  You walked up to the table, placed the minimum bet, won the bet, walked away, and retired from gambling a winner .   But, Hank, because I am the naughty brother, I am a much more aggressive gambler . So, Hank, last night I sat down at the roulette table at about 11 pm with $100 .  Three hours later, I left the casino with $110 .  Now, Hank, I don't like to brag, but I am an extremely good roulette player .  What makes me so good ?  Well, for one thing, I have a passion for the game, because I love tiny balls .  That's why I love golf, Rube Goldberg machines, and JezzBall . What else has tiny balls ?  " What do you do for a living, John Green ?  "  " Well, I sit around in hotel rooms and try to think of things with tiny balls .  " Mmm .  You are delicious, last night's french fries . Anyway, Hank !  Here's the key to playing roulette: You have to understand that over time, you're going to lose all of your money .  I don't mean you're sometimes going to lose all your money, I mean you're always going to lose all of your money .  So, the key to success is to bet as little as possible as infrequently as possible and every time the cocktail waitress asks if you want a Sprite you say  " yes "  .   And since the Sprites are  " free " , that way even if   you lose you still got 4 Sprites for your $100 .  Uhhhh, of course this strategy also works for drinks that aren't Sprite . Ultimately for me, Hank, gambling isn't so much a reminder of probability as it is a reminder of perspective .  I mean, walking home from the casino last night I felt I'd had a pretty successful evening .  I met some Canadian chaps, I got to watch one of my beloved tiny balls spin around a wheel for 3 hours, plus I got quite a few free drinks, and I won 10 whole dollars .   But Hank, here in the cold grey light of the morning after, those free drinks just feel like a slight headache and liquid calories I'm going to have to walk off on the treadmill desk and I can't help but feel like for all my labor last night I made less than 4 dollars per hour .  In short, Hank, I may be the older brother, but when it comes to gambling and also so much else, you are the wiser one . Okay, I have to give a speech to people who work at colleges .  High school Nerdfighters, I will definitely tell these people to accept all of you to all of the colleges .  Hank, I will see you on Friday ! P . S Hank - airport, Grey Speckled Walls, etc . That video was recorded before Hurricane Sandy came ashore, and I just wanted to say although I realize that most Nerdfighters currently without power aren't spending their cell batteries, like, watching YouTube; stay safe . Also, Bitterballin', tiny, delicious balls .  .  . and dip 'n' dots .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Thursday .     Great video about Puerto Rico, but you don't need to hear that from me, you heard it from Ricky freaking-uhh, always pointing the wrong direction !  It really is like Brotherhood 2 . 0 again .  You heard it from Ricky Martin .     Right, so listen Hank: when The Yeti and I lived in New York we did not own cars, because you don't need to .   But then in 2007 we moved to Indianapolis and we started to have to drive cars like regular Americans, and I inherited Mom and Dad's old car because apparently I'm a 17-year-old .   And ever since, I have been driving Mom and Dad's old car very happily, it's a great car .  The windows don't roll down, which is a little bit of a problem for drive-thru-y situations, but otherwise excellent .      But Hank, that whole time, as you know, I have had a dream .  Hank, you need ambition in this life to push you forward, but sometimes that ambition can drive you mad .  Look, for instance, at Captain Ahab and his white whale, Gatsby and his Daisy Buchanan, Kim Kardashian and her burning desire to have a sham wedding .  Hank, in January of 2007 one of your first Vlogbrothers videos was made from the Detroit Auto Show, an auto show that is famous because it marked the emergence of the Chevy Volt .  It was a beautiful concept car that then became a beautiful vehicle in production .   And I waited .     I waited, Hank, because I knew that chasing your dreams can destroy you, and also because I didn't have the money .  I waited, Hank, for six long years .  Until yesterday !  *Haaaaaaaa* It's my Chevy Volt !  So Hank, the Chevy Volt is an electric car - you just plug this end into your wall and this thing into your car .  Runs on electricity for about 40 miles and then switches to a gasoline-powered generator, however I rarely drive more than 40 miles in a day so I should be good to maybe never buy gas again .  .  .  is an example of an exaggeration .  What can I do, I'm excited !     You know how you start this car, Hank ?  You push the power button .  *Ding Ding* Whaaaaaaaat .  I can listen to my Pandora radio .  As you can see up there on the left, it uses telepathy to know how many people are in the car .  There's this little green ball that tells me when I'm being naughty .  I was just naughty .  Oh seat belt !  Ohh it's just like nerdfighters .  Always telling me to put my seat belt on even when I'm in a cul-de-sac .     Now Hank, the Chevy Volt is perhaps the most politicized car of our time .  Lots of people are like,  " Why would you buy that when a Toyota Corolla is so much cheaper ?  You must think you're gonna fix global warming, right ?  "  Buying a new car is not a carbon-neutral enterprise, no matter which one you buy .  I didn't buy a Chevy Volt to try to end global warming .  I bought a Chevy Volt because it's awesome, it's super fast, and you can put a car seat in the back .  That said, call me crazy, but I would rather power my car from my electricity, which comes from the wind blowing a few miles away, than from oil .      But Hank, so far in the first 12 hours of my Chevy Volt ownership the best thing about it, is that I know you are very, very jealous .  You want a Chevy Volt as much as I do, but you can't pull the trigger because you're the cheapest person in the world and have never bought a vehicle over $500 .   But I actually admire that about you Hank, and that's why when you come visit me in Indianapolis, you can absolutely ride in my Chevy Volt .  You can't drive it, you can't sit shotgun because that's where The Yeti sits, but you can sit in one of the back seats .     Hank, I'll see you-Ohhh I forgot: the Pizza John collection .  For the next 72 hours or so, these six variations on Valerie2776's original Pizza John shirt design will be available for pre-order at dftba . com .  Hank, these variations were made by you so that you could make another of my dreams come true: my mustachioed face becoming a clothing line .  They're only available for this one pre-order period and then they will disappear forever .  They're like the Buddhist sand paintings of Pizza John shirts .     Hank, I will see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  So ever since your brilliant video on Friday I've been thinking about Florence Foster Jenkins .  Her Wikipedia article has perhaps the most damning first sentence I've ever read:  " Florence Foster Jenkins was an American amateur operatic soprano who was known, and ridiculed for, her lack of rhythm, pitch, tone, aberrant pronunciation of libretti, and overall poor singing ability "  .   But lest you think Wikipedia was exaggerating, I'm gonna play you some Florence Foster Jenkins while I show off how good I am at touching my toes .  Aah, that was painful in more ways than one . So Hank, Florence Foster Jenkins began her singing career when she was 44 years old .  She was divorced, her parents had died, she inherited some money and she decided to pursue her dream of becoming a famous opera singer .   And she had everything going for her: she had the drive, she had the time, she had the money, she wasn't afraid to fail .  There was just the one problem with being a terrible, terrible singer .  And that's the crazy thing about Florence Foster Jenkins: she couldn't sing at all, but she really believed she could sing .  She would come onstage with wings and sing Verdi and it would be like a total disaster, except that she had fun and everyone in the audience had fun .  So she had this fairly successful career and then, in 1944 Florence Foster Jenkins finally made it to Carnegie Hall .  She played a sold-out show at Carnegie Hall and she SUCKED .  And this is vital Hank, because Florence Foster Jenkins set the bar for worst ever Carnegie Hall performance so low that I believe we can jump over it .  So Hank, to celebrate the one year anniversary of The Fault In Our Stars, Penguin has rented out Carnegie Hall for us .   And we are going to have an evening of awesome where we read and talk and play music - don't worry I won't sing - and all of my four favorite bands are going be there .  Because of course my first favorite band is The Mountain Goats, my second favorite band also The Mountain Goats, my third favorite band is you Hank, and my fourth favorite band is The Mountain Goats .   And The Mountain Goats are playing Carnegie Hall with us .  It's gonna be awesome, we're gonna do our best to put on the greatest show that Carnegie Hall has ever seen .  That's a lie, we've got Richard Pryor to compete with,  Andy Kaufman, Billie Holiday .  We are going to be better than Florence Foster Jenkins ! So Hank, as you saw earlier, with my knees locked I can't touch my toes, I can't even come close .  As a result, realistically I'm probably never going to live my dream of being a professional contortionist .   But Hank, as you well know, I also can't sing and I am going to live my dream of playing Carnegie Hall . Hank obviously in life you have to find the places where your talents meets the world's needs, but the great lesson of Florence Foster Jenkins life is that aptitude is not destiny .  I mean Hank, her voice sounded like the mating and or death squeals of alley cats .   But because she refused to be self conscious about doing this thing she sucked at people responded .  They often responded by laughing, but they responded .   And it was obviously fulfilling for her because she sang for people professionally for like 40 years . It sucks not being good at something you love, but I really admire people who do it anyway, like I admire myself when I go to yoga class .   And Hank, while I certainly hope that we don't replace one Foster Jenkins as the worst Carnegie Hall performance of all time, I admire her too .  As she once put it Hank  " People may say I can't sing, but no one can ever say I didn't sing "  .    " Some things you do for money and some you do for fun .   But the things you do for love are gonna come back to you, one by one .  " Hank, I'll see you on Friday !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  So as you know, the Yeti and I have a lot of books .  Like, we have several thousand books in our house at any given time .  I mean, even Henry has a pretty significant book collection, and he's two .  So, Hank, I do feel a little bit qualified to recommend books .  I'm often asked what my favorite book is, I don't have a favorite book, I have hundreds .   But today, since it's the holiday gift season and all, I thought I'd recommend some books in an if-you-then-you format .  Example, if you liked Fifty Shades of Grey, then you can find lots of that stuff on the internet for free .   Okay, let's start .   If you like the fictional exploits of the Swindon Town Swoodilypoopers, you might also like the Ballad of The Whiskey Robber, an amazing true story about a Hungarian hockey player who is a professional hockey goalie and a bank robber !  Also a prison escapee, but I don't want to spoil anything .   Okay, if you're interested in decreasing world suck, or know someone who is, you might like Behind the Beautiful Forevers, the most interesting and complex book about poverty I have ever read .  That makes it sound really sad and un-fun, but it isn't sad, it's a little bit sad, it's just great, read it !  For fans of The Catcher in the Rye, what gift book do I recommend, it's going to be a surprise, Sula by Toni Morrison .  If Catcher is the great American novel of growing up without a friend, I think Sula is the great American novel about friendship in adolescence .   Downton Abbey nerds, I recommend Mansfield Park, Persuasion, really any Jane Austen novel .  I mean, the costume design in those novels is fantastic .   If you like my book The Fault in Our Stars, thanks .  I also recommend that you read Peter de Vries' book, The Blood of the Lamb .   If you like The Hunger Games, this is hard because I'm a huge fan of dystopias, I'm going to go Scott Westerfeld's Uglies series, also Ally Condie's Matched series, and Veronica Roth's infuriatingly unfinished Divergent series, give me an ending !   If you're interested in reading a book together with your romantic partner, the two books the Yeti and I read together this year and liked the most were Telegraph Avenue by Michael Chabon, Chabon, Chab .  .  .  I don't know how to say his last name, and Bossypants, by Tina Fey, Fey, Fe .  .  .  I don't know .   If you liked the Harry Potter books, you should just read them again, they stand up to rereading, but you should also read Lev Grossman's The Magicians series, which is a very knowing and wonderful take on the wizard school genre .   And if you want to read a great book about the Harry Potter fandom, I recommend Harry, A History by Melissa Anelli .   How about you want to read a novel where you just care so much about the characters and you don't even understand why ?  I recommend The Art of Fielding by Chad Harbach, or Markus Zusak's The Book Thief, gah, that book is good, also, Markus Zusak is so handsome, it's frustrating .  Oh, don't tell him I said this or anything, but Markus Zusak has fantastic muscles .   Crash Course: World History fans who enjoy fiction, let me recommend two very long books that you will not regret reading, Wolf Hall and The Astonishing Life of Octavian Nothing: Traitor to the Nation, Volumes One and Two .   Crash Course: Biology enthusiasts, I am a huge fan of The Emperor of All Maladies, also, great title .   If you're a Looking for Alaska fan who mostly liked the boarding school-y parts, then I recommend The Disreputable History of Frankie Landau-Banks by E .  Lockhart .    And if you liked the no-spoilers parts, then I recommend Everybody Sees the Ants by A . S .  King and If I Stay by Gayle Forman .   Whovians, you thought I wasn't gonna get to you, but it's fine .  I recommend the great and under-appreciated To Say Nothing of the Dog by Connie Willis which is maybe my favorite time travel book ever .    And Sherlock fans, this is gonna sound crazy, but stay with me, I recommend that you read The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle .  Also, I think you'd like P . D .  James a lot .   So those are my holiday book buying recommendations for Nerdfighters everywhere .  Nerdfighters, I'm interested to know what you think I should be reading, so let me know in comments .    And lastly, a gentle reminder, books, especially those purchased at your local bookstore, make great gifts .  Hank, over the years I've received and enjoyed many wonderful gifts, but none have lasted as long as the books .  I mean, here is the copy of Ship Breaker that you got me for Christmas a few years ago, here's the copy of The Human Stain that Sarah gave me when we first started dating, this is the edition of Microserfs that Dad bought me for Christmas in 1997, and this is Where the Red Fern Grows, which Mom got me for Christmas when I was 10 .   So give me your book recommendations, please consider giving books over the holidays, especially mine, but also other peoples', Hank, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .   So, full disclosure, I'm a little bit flustered right now because TIME magazine just released its list of the top ten novels of the year and The Fault in Our Stars is first, like, first above all the other books released in 2012 .  Like, I'm ahead of Hilary Mantel and J . D .  Smith and Juno Diaz and J .  K .  freaking Rowling .  So right now, I'm just a bit overwhelmed and excited and like rwagahhblah .  By the way,   Henry's painting, isn't he a genius ?   Right, a couple weeks ago, I visited my alma mater, Hogwarts, I mean Kenyon College, a small liberal arts school in Ohio where I learned so much about how to read and write from brilliant professors in small classrooms .  I mean, this is where I became a writer and an adult and I made a proper thoughts from places video, which you can find at Kenyon's channel in the dooblydoo, but while I was there, I couldn't stop thinking about how privileged I am .  Like, for one thing, my race and gender and sex and orientation are all privileged by the social order in which I live, but I was also outrageously privileged to be able to attend a college like Kenyon, where I had small classes and amazing professors who carefully read my papers and responded to them thoughtfully .  I'm also privileged because I had access to high-speed internet in 2007, Hank, and you and I could afford cheap, horrible video cameras to begin Brotherhood 2 . 0 .   I mean, Hank, Vlogbrothers, Crash Course, SciShow, The Lizzie Bennet Diaries, VidCon, all of these things wouldn't exist if we hadn't had $249 to spend on video cameras at the end of 2006 .   And that's a big part of the reason I feel so strongly about trying to extend access to opportunities to more people .  There are a lot of people who can bring awesome things into this world but are lacking the opportunities to do so .  Which brings me to the 6th annual Project for Awesome !   So every year on December 17th, the Nerdfighter and YouTube communities come together to decrease world suck .   And there are two parts to the Project for Awesome: the video part and the other part .  Some times in between jump cuts I think about the fact that Time Magazine just named my book the best book of the year and I feel like   .  Right so the video part: at noon Eastern, five pm GMT, on December seventeenth, upload a video about a nonprofit organization or cause you believe in .  Try to be creative an remember it's great if you can show the organization doing its work .   Then you can embed your video at projectforawesome . com and people will vote for it and there will also be a 48 hour Project for Awesome livestream where we work together to find and promote Project for Awesome videos by commenting, liking, favoriting, tweeting, Tumblring- I'm tired of gerunds .   And the other part is that we'll be raising money for the Foundation to Decrease Worldsuck which money will be distributed to organizations featured in the videos that get the five most votes at projectforawesome . com .   Although, wait a second, it's important to note that's done at the discretion of the Project for Awesome Board of Directors, which is all nerdfighters .  'Cause, like, if 4chan comes in and rigs the vote for, like,the National Association of People Who Hate Nerds then yeah, no .  How much money will it be ?  That is largely up to you, but we do already have more than $15,000 thanks to Nerdcrafteria donations and also because the people who made the Evil Baby Orphanage card game quietly donated a portion of the proceeds to the Foundation .  Also, as in previous years, Hank and I will donate one penny per Project for Awesome comment, up to 1,000,000 comments .   And most excitingly, thanks to four awesome donors who wish to remain anonymous, every dollar that is donated to the Foundation to Decrease Worldsuck will be matched up to $50,000 .  So yay anonymous people !  There will be an Indiegogo page up around December 16th and while your donations are not tax deductible, all of the proceeds will go directly to the Project for Awesome charities .   Last thing: projectforawesome . com is not quite live yet, but you should go there right now and sign up for the mailing list .  Even if you signed up for the mailing list last year, that's no good because we trashed the mailing list every year because we hate spam !  So go sign up, you will only receive e-mail about this year's Project for Awesome- nothing else ever I promise !   Okay, Hank, that's it, I think I have to go call the Yeti and tell her the good news .  DFTBA, I will see you on Friday .   It looked like I was pointing to my pants when I said I was going to call the Yeti- I was pointing at my phone !                 
Good Morning Hank .  It's Tuesday .  It's extremely early because I have to go to the dentist this morning to find out if I need a root canal .  Spoiler Alert: Probably .   So Hank, I'm coming to you today wearing a suit and a Holden Caulfield hat because it's time for the bank of Nerdfighteria quarterly report, which is more of an annual report these days but with the Project for Awesome coming up, it's important .  So Hank, the bank of Nerdfighteria is like Charlie McDonnell, it has two arms .  Also it's so nice and generous and talented and handsome- right so first we have the giving arm .  The Foundation to Decrease Worldsuck was originally set up in 2007 to do a mixture of things like sending nerdfighters to their first concerts and like trying to address global poverty .   But since 2008 we've been more focused on like the global poverty end of the spectrum because, you know, it's more important .   After last year's Project for Awesome, the Foundation to Decrease Worldsuck donated more than $80,000 to five charities chosen by the YouTube community .  Which is awesome except it means that after that we were broke .  Since then we've been refilling the coffers .  This year we have $15,000 currently in the bank, plus an additional $60,000 in pledges .  So it should be bigger than last year .  Now to the lending arm !  Oh but I should mention Nerdcrafteria .  One of the reasons we have $15,000 is because is because of the Nerdfighter Minecraft server .  Which makes me think about something important, but I have to go to the dentist, so you are coming too .  You didn't think you were going to the dentist today, but you were wrong .     Shh .  Do you hear that Hank ?  No you don't, because it's electric .  Boogie woogie woogie woogie .     Nerdfighteria used to be a YouTube based phenomenon but now there are so many places to be a nerdfighter, there's Nerdcrafteria, there's the Adult Nerdfighter group on Facebook, countless location specific Facebook groups,   there's the nerdfighters of the Ning and of the new forum, our pants, there's the nerdfighters subreddit on Reddit, the nerdfighters VYou group   and there's the effyeahnerdfighters Tumblr and Tumblr more generally and there's probably tons of others that I don't even know about and then there's the nerdfighters of Kiva .       No root canal !  Yet .     I knew you would come through for me, people hunting hat .  All right, let's talk about Kiva .     Kiva's a website that allows regular people to make loans to entrepreneurs in the developing world, giving those people access to banking, which otherwise they wouldn't have .  When we last checked in with the nerdfighter Kiva group they had just passed one million dollars in loans and right now we are about to pass 1 . 6 million dollars .  As you can see here- As you   As you can see here on our total amount loaned, we're on a roller-coaster that only goes up .    But the coolest thing about is that if you aren't a member yet, right now you can click the link in the doobly-doo and you can make your first loan for free .  Not only that, but the person who invites you gets to make a free loan, which in this case is Paul, a nerdfighter from Arizona who won a raffle .   But in the past that person has often been me, which is why I've been able to loan more than $64,000 .  So having made more than 2,000 Kiva loans, what percentage of those people have so far paid me back ?  100% .  Hank, I've loaned $64, 775 and so far I've lost $7 due to currency fluctuations in south Sudan .  I got to help $64,000 worth of businesses around the world grow and it cost me $7 .   So Hank, that's my report the lending arm is going like gangbusters and the giving arm is ready for the Project for Awesome .  So Hank, as I said before there are now so many places to be a nerdfighter that the Project for Awesome isn't just a YouTube thing anymore, it's an internet thing .   But YouTube is still the core of it, so nerdfighters, make a video about a charity that you feel passionately about, upload it on Monday at noon Eastern .  Hank, I will see you on Friday !     He sounds like a dental drill .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday . So, Hank, today marks the sixth anniversary of Vlogbrothers, but more importantly, last night the United States Senate threw the worst New Year's Eve party ever that ended with a compromise to avoid the so-called  " Fiscal Cliff "  of increased taxes and decreased spending .  The centerpiece of this compromise is to make the really hard decisions in a few months .  So, Congress ! John from the future here .  Quick update: when making this video I naturally assumed that the House of Representatives would also agree to the compromise, so as to avoid intentionally throwing the nation into a recession but it turns out I may have been overly optimistic .  CONGRESS ! By almost any measure, the last two years have seen the least effective Congress-ing in the United States since at least the 1850's, which as you might remember, led to a Ken Burns documentary .  Hank, in the last few years the US Congress has only passed 219 bills, which may sound like a lot, except almost all of those were to name Federal buildings after war heroes .  I mean, don't get me wrong, I am happy that there is now a post office named after Revolutionary War general Nathaniel Woodhull, who when ordered to say  " God save the Queen "  instead said  " God save us all "  and then got killed .   But that's it Hank, that's all they've done !  I mean the famous do-nothing Congress of the Harry Truman era passed more than 900 bills ! So Hank to understand why the legislative branch has become so incredibly ineffective at legislating, we need a quick history lesson .  The original American government was founded on the Articles of Confederation, and that government really couldn't do anything .  So we eventually had to ditch the articles and write the Constitution, which created a Congress that could do, you know, just a little bit .  So the United States Congress, like a lot of rich people, lives in two houses .  There's the Senate, which has two members from each of the fifty states, who are elected to six year terms, and then there's the House of Representatives, where people serve two-year terms, which means they're basically always campaigning .  Each state gets a certain number of representatives based on population, so like Hank in Montana you just have one, because no one lives in Montana .  Here in Indiana, we have like nine .   And vitally, each state legislature draws its own lines for where the Congressional districts begin and end .   And Hank, I think that turns out to be one of the central reasons why Congress can't do anything . Hank, my congressperson here in Indianapolis is  Andre Carson .  He's a Democrat .  My across the street neighbor, however, is represented by a Republican named Dan Burton .  Is that because we live in different zip codes ?  No, we live in the same zip code .  It's because the houses across the street are more expensive, so they redrew the district to include those houses because they figured they'd vote for Republicans .   And Hank this kind of thing is happening all over the country, like according to analysis by Nate Silver, in the last twenty years, we've gone from 103 swing districts, that is districts where either party has about an equal chance of winning, to 35 swing districts .   And today, because of the way state legislatures draw these maps, most congressional districts are so-called landslide districts, which means they are at least 20% more Republican or more Democratic than the American population .  Hank, if you're Democrat  Andre Carson or Republican Dan Burton, you're going to win your general election by like, thirty percentage points .  So in most congressional elections, the race between the Republican and the Democrat is not a race .  The only race, the only thing these people have to fear, is a primary challenger, another Republican or another Democrat coming in and saying  " You're not radical enough .  "  So why would you compromise when compromising can cost you your job ? Hank, 2012 was an amazing year for us: you co-created the Lizzie Bennet Diaries and SciShow and Crash Course, VidCon doubled in size, my book The Fault in Our Stars was published and has so far spent fifty-one consecutive weeks on the New York Times bestseller list .  Why are these things happening ?  Because government !  Also, Nerdfighteria .  Government, Hank .  There's a reason why no popular YouTube adaption of Pride and Prejudice has emerged from Somalia: they don't have a government, they don't have roads to facilitate commerce, or public schools to teach kids, or investment in telecom to make this happen . So Hank, Congress was designed to suck at doing stuff .   And they do, but they have to work together just enough to cover, you know, the basics and we've always gotten there but now I'm a little worried .  Now Hank, people won't lose faith in America's ability to govern itself all at once .  It won't be an event, it'll be a process, but if it happens it will be much worse than going over any fiscal cliff .  So remember the next time you vote, the most important election might be for like state Congressperson or whoever's gonna draw the line to decide whether my neighbor and I should have the same congressional representation even though we have different incomes . Hank, I'll see you on Friday . PS Hank, who would've thought we'd be doing this for six years ?  Thank you, American government, for running well enough that I can make videos in my basement for nerdfighters .  That sounded creepy, but it's not .                 
" Good Morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday !  " Sorry, I needed him for white balancing .  So Hank, I really liked your video a couple weeks ago about the ownership of ideas and I agree with you that current copyright law is a hot slice of crazy .  But Hank, people and ideas need some kind of copyright protection because otherwise, like, CBS could come along and take all the Vlogbrothers videos and just put them on their network and call the show Two Brothers Slowly Age .  And I would hate that because1 .  My face was not designed for like 42 inch HD televisions and2 .  CBS would make all of this money and I would get nothing ! OK, for example Hank, let's say you design this . Generally, what happens is that if I want to make a t-shirt out of that design, I buy the design from you .  Let's say I pay $100 . So I buy the design and now I own it, I make a t-shirt and if the t-shirt is a failure, you have your $100 and if it is a wild success that generates millions of t-shirts, you have your $100 . This has always struck me as unfair because yes, I made the t-shirt and distributed it and whatnot, but it's still your design so you should still kind of own it .   And this is why DFTBA Records is now focused on royalties for Nerdfighter designers .  Like every time you buy a Pizza John shirt, I split the royalties with Valerie2776 who designed it .  It's her design, but it's my face and moustache so .  .  . we go halfsies . That's relatively simple .  This is very complicated . So Hank, a few weeks ago I'm scrolling through the TFIOS tag on Tumblr   and I come across this and I am like  " That is a fantastic poster and I want it to be on my wall !  " So I reblogged it and then I sent the Tumblr user an ask saying like  " We should do this on DFTBA Records !  It'll be so fun !  "  and then she wrote me back and she was like  " Yeah .  .  . I didn't design that and I don't know did .  " So then I asked Tumblr  " Does any one know who designed this ?  "  and a 16 year old Filipino Nerdfighter named Nico wrote in and said  " Yes, it was me !  "  And I was like  " Great, all of our problems are solved "  and then Nico was like  " Yeah, I made this painting and then someone made it into a poster .  "  And then I was like  " OK, who is the someone ?  "  and Nico was like  " I have no idea .  " So then for a couple of weeks, Nico and I were doing some like hardcore Sherlock style detective work on Tumblr and then finally we finally found the person who adapted the painting into a poster . It was another 16 year old Nerdfighter, this one living in Norway named Ashild ?  .  .  .  Ashild ? When I asked her how to pronounce her name, she said  " Given your inability to pronounce the Swedish title of your book, I don't think you can do it .  "  Which is just not fair, because I am just excellent at pronouncing  " Forr Eller Senare EXPLODERAR Jag !  " God, I love this cover . I'm just going to let Google Translate do it .  .  .  right, so she made the poster . So Hank, to summarize, I'd wrote a book in the United States which inspired a reader of mine in the Philippines to make a painting which in turn inspired another reader of mine in Norway to make a poster . Hank, international copyright law just isn't ready for that kind of thing .  Also, vitally, neither Nica nor myself gave permission to .  .  .  I'm just going to call her Ashley .  Neither of us gave permission to Ashley to make the poster but we both love the poster . So, the three of us, on three separate continents, came to a royalty agreement, then we paid the guy who designed the font and NOW AT LAST it is a poster that is available for pre-order now at dftba . com .  I will sign the first however many are pre-ordered . Hank, we need better copyright law but in the meantime, we have to try to do well by each other and by each other's ideas .  For me, that means welcoming and encouraging fan fiction and music or art inspired by my books .  But Hank, as you pointed out in your video, when money enters the picture, things change .  Like I would be super annoyed if CBS made an adaptation of The Fault in Our Stars without my permission, but I am very happy when people, like, adapt scenes from the book in YouTube videos, even if those videos have ads on them .  And we really don't have a good way of defining the difference between Nerdfighters making something on YouTube and Viacom making something on CBS .  Unless and until the mess of copyright get untangled and the laws get better, we're going to have to police ourselves but the good news is that the Internet is actually pretty good at that . Hank, I think the most important things are that the Internet continues to be vigilant  , that we try to be fair to each other and that we never let copyright law make us afraid to create, because that is the opposite of what it's supposed to do . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday . Landed in London early in the morning, not even sure what day it was .  These buses, by the way are not just a cliche, they're also actual public transport . In a stunning turn of events, it's raining in England . Got something to drink at Eat, because I'm a rebel and then came outside six minutes later and the sun was shining because England . Went to the BBC to do a radio interview where they let me play Elton John's actual piano .  God, I'm good at piano . Dropped off my bags at a very nice hotel room, featuring a well dressed headless woman and pages from a children's book and there was a gift bag from Penguin containing warm English beer and Marmite, naturally, as well as a signed Steven Gerrard jersey which, not to brag, but I look great in . Then I broke one of my rules of conquering jet lag, but only briefly . No laying down ! Took a taxi to the Penguin offices where there is currently a very shmancy display for The Fault in out Stars and then went up to the tenth to enjoy the same view of London that Winston Churchill once had during the Second World War . Then I went to the Guardian, which has extremely nice chairs and also a view of houseboats and canals that reminded me of Amsterdam .  It was way too early to go to sleep so I headed over to the British Museum of old things and other miscellany with Tanya and Jodie . I saw people seeing the Rosetta Stone and then after a long while I saw the Rosetta Stone itself with its tri-lingual declaration that helped us de-code Hieroglyphics .  I saw sarcophagi and tomb lids and a giant bug and animals who guarded the king's apartment . Then we headed over to the Greeks and the Romans where I saw this guy with his junk permanently attached to his toga who is better off than this guy who was missing both arms, his nose and his junk . This monument featured several decapitated women and then we saw some more decapitated women and then yet more, which I guess is where YA book publishers got the idea for the headless girl cover trend . This headless guy is punching a headless horse who in turn is kicking him in the balls . Then I saw an Easter Island statue and non-decapitated Aztec women and a two headed turquoise snake and this thing and this thing which for some reason I found really fascinating so I looked at it for a long time from many different angles and I still couldn't figure out quitewhat was going on, so I read the wall label where I learned that the guy was apparently about to stab himself in the penis, but more importantly I noticed that the thing I was looking at was currently on loan to the Royal Museum of Ontario and while I was reasonably jet-lagged, I was pretty sure that I was not in Toronto . So in fact, Hank, I was not looking at a thing at all, I was looking at an incredibly well made photograph of a thing installed so perfectly that I'm not sure you can tell that you are looking at video of a photograph of a thing, rather than a video of an actual thing .  Which calls into question the whole relevance of looking at actual things when virtual experiences are so compelling, but more on that in a second . I had to keep walking so I met up with Hank and Katherine and CGP Grey, who took us immediately to a crypt, you know, as one does .  That turns out also to be a cafe where you can dine atop the dead . We walked through a train station with its indoor pigeons and then over this bridge where we learned that you can urinate in England for only five hundred pounds . Here's a great view of London and here is, 'Do not attempt parkour or you will be impaled by many sticks ! 'Then we saw cafe Nerd and a skate-park and Parliament back-lit in a downright Hogwartsian way and an American viking on a Harley scooter, and the London Eye which no, never, not as long as I live .  And then I ran into a Nerdfighter who actually works at the London Eye and she was lovely and begged me to go, but no, never, no ! Instead we walked on past the building heroically rebuilt after its destruction in a recent James Bond movie, past another Cafe Nerd and past Somerset House . Then we headed to the Tate Modern and Hank pretended to have Heelys and we kept walking, past the Globe Theatre and all that remains of Winchester Palace to a pub where Hank reminded us that even after six years, it is still impossible to act natural when a camera is pointed at you . When we left it was 4:45 pm and therefore very dark, but we kept walking .  I found my book in a bookshop, and we saw London City Hall and stopped at last with this view of the Tower Bridge . I found myself wondering how different it really was from a photograph .  I didn't need to be here to see this, after all .  Of course, the reason for our trip was, well, this, but after thirty hours awake and the optical illusion of the British Museum, I couldn't decide if sights really need seeing or if virtual experience has become enough, and I still can't decide . So I made this virtual experience for you; let me know how real it feels . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
  GOOD MORNING HANK; IT'S TUESDAY !  !  !  !  !  !  !       I was going to make a Thoughts from Places video from Dublin, but then I realized that you took all of my footage and used it in your Dublin video, so I'm left with just this clip of a woman smelling her pit in shame like she is an opponent of the Swindon Town Swoodilypoopers .     Who, by the way, Hank, have THREE games left in their entire FIFA 11 history and are on the cusp of winning the Barclays Premier League; link in the dooblydoo !     So Hank, I was pretty upset with you for borrowing all of my footage from Dublin, but then something much more important happened; I began to develop a cold sore !  Mmmm .  .  .  you can't really see it, but you know how you know you're going to get one before you get one; yeah, I know I'm going to get one .     So, Hank, why is that such a big deal ?  Well, on Thursday, I am going to be in a Google+ Hangout with the President of the United States, Barack Obama, and I am probably going to have a cold sore .     My only hope of not having a cold sore is this stuff, Abreva, which is the only FDA-approved medication for cold sores and literally costs more than gold !  Wait, did you just say I was going to be in a Google+ Hangout with the President of the United States of America ?  !    is the sound that my anxiety makes .     Hank, I have no idea why this happened, but someone at Google called me a couple of days ago, and was like,  " Do you want to hang out with the President ?  " , and I was like,  " Eh, it depends, the President of what ?  Because I just hung out with the President of DFTBA Records, Hank Green, for like a week and a half, and it was all right, but .  .  .  you know, I wouldn't do it again .  "      And they were like,  " Yeah, the President of the United States, Barack Obama; do you want to be in a Google Hangout and ask him a few questions ?  " , and I was like,  " Hmmm,  , OK .  "     So Hank, I am going to get to ask the President some questions, I'm going to improvise a bit, but I have prepared a few .  My first question is,  " H-Hi, Mr .  President, my name's John Green, OH MY GOD WHAT IS AIR ?  !  "  Then I also have,  " Would you rather fight 10 duck-sized horses or 1 horse-sized duck ?  " , and, of course,  " Mr .  President, I can't help but notice that Canada got rid of its one-cent coin and nothing bad happened; HOW DO WE STILL LIVE IN A WORLD WITH PENNIES ?  !  "      And then, of course, I have to ask him,  " Who the eff is Hank "  .  By the way, Hank, you can also ask questions to the President, as can anyone; there is a link in the dooblydoo to submit your questions; there is also a link in the dooblydoo to RSVP to the Hangout, or whatever-I-don't-understand-this-terminology .      But basically, it'll be live on YouTube at 4:50 PM Eastern Time on Thursday; I will be the one will the cold sore .     Anyway, Hank, I'm intellectually aware of the fact that the President of the United States doesn't care if I have a cold sore, and also that he will forget who I am within like 4 seconds of the end of the Google Hangout, so that he can go back to like country-running .     I am nonetheless extreme anxious about the cold sore, and also every other facet of this interaction .   And I saw a similar phenomenon, albeit on a much different scale, when we were on tour, because many people, when we met them, were very like nervous and self-conscious .     Hank, we met more than 6,000 Nerdfighters in 10 days, and I can say with authority that none of them had anything to be embarrassed about, but I know that many of them still felt embarrassed anyway; I also felt embarrassed .      And that's kind of the inherent problem with meeting people you admire or whose work you really like; it will never be normal, because you're always going to be hyper-conscious of everything that could go wrong .      And if, say, you're President of the United States, you have those interactions with people EVERY SINGLE DAY, Hank .     Like most of your interactions, even with your staff, are with people who are like,  " Oh my God, that's the President, everyone be calm .  "     THAT is the number one reason I would never want to be President; number two reason is that no matter how sensible your policy ideas, people only want to talk about ideology .      And the number three reason is that I get cold sores every winter, and if you're President, then YOU CAN'T HIDE .     Hank, when the Yeti and I first started dating, she told me that when she was in eighth grade, she realized that everyone else was thinking about themselves as much as she was thinking about herself, and that therefore no one else had any time to think about her .     This epiphany was one of the central reasons why Sarah was a relatively well-adjusted teenager; she realized that when she was like thirteen; I realized it when I was .  .  .  I'm actually still trying to internalize it .     Hopefully it'll happen before Thursday afternoon, but regardless, Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank; it's Tuesday .     So I had a pretty big week last week; my novel  " The Fault in Our Stars "  returned to #1 on the New York Times Bestseller list, 56 weeks after it came out .  Also, my wife and I are expecting our second child, whom the President of the United States told not to forget to be awesome, but most importantly, Hank, for the first time in American history, a sitting President of the United States acknowledged that pennies are a terrible idea !     He also acknowledged that the penny is an excellent metaphor for what's wrong with governance, so yes, it was an incredible week, and in the wake of incredible weeks, what I usually do is crawl into bed .     I don't know why this is, Hank, but it's been happening my whole life; I just get overwhelmed with anxiety and I decide that I should crawl into bed and never do anything ever again .      But that is a bad life strategy, Hank, so today I'm going to update you on 12 things that we are doing .     1, Mental Floss .  People often ask me how to get started as a writer; my advice is always to find people who are also starting out and work with them .  My first writing gig ever in my life was with Mental Floss !  Ten years later, I talk into a camera for a living, and they've gone on to become this educational and trivia empire, but they've never had a YouTube channel, UNTIL NOW !  Hank, you and I are both working on this, and I'm really excited to bring Mental Floss to YouTube; there's going to be list videos and quizzes and like a cool intro, it's going to be great !     Thing 2, The Project for Awesome .  So, Hank, we still haven't announced which charities are getting the money, but that's because we don't know how much money there's going to be, and we probably won't know for a couple more weeks, because we have to work with PayPal, and figure out how much shipping costs, and various other things .     Thing 3, The Fault in Our Stars Movie ?  I'm not going to lie to you; I've had my heart broken by Hollywood before, but I'm starting to think that the Fault in Our Stars movie is actually going to be a thing .  So .  .  .  yeah .  That said, please don't believe everything that you read on the Internet, because journalists who work in Los Angeles seem to just make things up .  Rest assured that when there is news, it will not come from like celebgossip . buzz, it will come from me !     Thing 4, DFTBA Records .  Having taking over an abandoned nursery school in Missoula, Montana, DFTBA Records is bigger and more awesome than ever !  We're continuing to try to make DFTBA more and more about getting cool stuff that also supports people you like, whether that's a CGPGrey coffee mug, or a WheezyWaiter t-shirt, or a poster partly designed by a 16-year old Norwegian girl named .  .  .  Asil ?     Number 5, my writing .  .  .  I'm trying .  .  .  .     Number 6, the Swindon Town Swoodilypoopers .  Hank, the LAST FIFA 11 Swindon Town Swoodilypoopers video goes up tomorrow, when we will find out if we win the Barclays Premier League and if the Miracle of Swindon Town is complete !  I just want to go out a winner for the boys .  By the way, Hank, the actual Swindon Town football club is currently looking for a manager, and I just want to state for the record, I am available .     Number 7, Crash Course .  You've just started teaching Chemistry, which sounds very unpromising, and yet it has been really entertaining and interesting, and I am kind of .  .  .  learning .  Meanwhile, I'm three episodes into teaching the history of Canada's Pants, also known as the United States of America .     Number 8, VidCon 2013 .  Hank, most of the tickets to VidCon 2013 are gone, so if people want one, they should get one now .  VidCon's going to be really fun this year; it will also be the first time that I leave the house after the birth of my kid, so I will be ready to party .   And by party, I mean sleep for 8 hours in a row; you know what I'm talking about, parents .     Number 9, the Lizzie Bennet Diaries .  Hank, I get several emails a day complimenting me on my excellent work for the Lizzie Bennet Diaries, which I don't do; I am not involved in that project at all .  However, I am happy to take credit for it !     Number 10, the Kiva . org Nerdfighters .  Hank, the Nerdfighters of Kiva are approaching $2 MILLION in loans to entrepreneurs in the developing world .     Number 11, parenting, is still my biggest job at the moment .      And number 12, 2-D GLASSES, which renders 3-dimensional movies in a crisp two dimensions .  Hank, this idea that you had for 2-D glasses, which I thought was a terrible idea, turns out to have been brilliant !  The 2-D glasses empire grows by the day; Hank, you have way too many ideas, but thank you for having them, because they pull me out of the quicksand of myself and force me to get to work,    DFTBA; I will see you on Friday !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday and as you can tell from the gray speckled walls behind me, in a stunning turn of events, I have found myself in an airport . So Hank, since Brotherhood 2 . 0 started in 2007; I have flown more than .  .  .  Oh no, it's my pleasure to cooperate with that federal security requirement .  My only request is that two minutes from now, you let me know about the same requirement . So Hank, since Brotherhood 2 . 0 started in 2007; I have flown more than 400,000 miles and as a result I have a lot of perks .  Oh is smoking prohibited ?  That's stunning; I would never have guessed it . Like, I don't have to take off my shoes at security because I have been pre-cleared by the TSA . I get to board the plane first because I have a gold medallion thing . I can even go to the fancy airport lounge, although I don't because it's extremely depressing in there .  But Hank, by far the most important perk is that when the plague comes that is going to devastate humanity, I will be among its first victims .  Because that stuff never starts with people watching CSI at home, it starts in airports .   And I've always said, if there's going be some human-ending apocalyptic event, I want to be right out in front of it . Like my zombie apocalypse plan ?  Become a zombie as quickly as possible .  I don't want to watch all the people I love slowly be overtaken by the undead . Also I usually get to sit in first class .  So most people think that the people who sit in first class are like rich people who paid a lot of money for their tickets .   And sometimes that's true, but most people who sit in first class get to sit up there because they fly with the same airline all the time, and the airline wants to like thank them .  .  .  or essentially bribe them . So listen up, infrequent fliers, as you're walking past the first class people to your like middle seat in the second to last row of the airplane, I want you to remember something . You may think,  " Man, those are the fancy people; those are the people who have it figured out .  "   But no !  You with with your seat in the middle of the last row, you have it figured out ! Because while it's true that enjoy many perks as the result of having spent more than five hundred days in the last six years in the company of the grey speckled walls, there are also some disadvantages . Hank, I remember once that I was flying to like Dayton, Ohio and I sat next to a guy who had, like, not gold status, or platinum status, or diamond status, but like diamond platinum elite silver plus status, like he'd flown like ten million miles, and I was so impressed, I was like,  " Man, that is an awesome status that you've got there !  "  and he looked at me, and he was like,  " Yeah, you know, it's a pretty amazing status, but you know what it cost me ?  A marriage .  " Now, Hank, I do realize that this is like the first-worldiest of all first world problems, like  " Waah, waah, I have to go thirty thousand feet into the air and observe the majesty of Earth on a regular basis !  "  But the thing about traveling all the time is that while it's true that you get to be the first person to die in like the rabbit plague or whatever, and that's huge, you also have to spend a lot of time away from your family .   And that sucks, which is why, Hank, I am so excited that this is my last trip to the grey speckled walls until AUGUST, when I go to VidCon . Hank, I cannot tell you how excited I am to become an infrequent flier - I'm going to make lots of videos, and I'm going to work on my new book, but most importantly, I am going to hang out with my family .  Which hopefully includes you and the Katherine, Hank, but you've got to come here, because as previously noted, I am not flying . Hank, in the comments of my last video, where I cooked dinner with Henry, a lot of people were like,  " You're such a great dad !  "  and I hope that I am a good dad .   But if I am, it's not because I can like make some jokes while holding a video camera and overcooking asparagus . Hank, when I look back at my childhood .  .  .   Why do people always have to get paged ?  I have never been paged .  I have spent five hundred days in airports in the last six years, and never once have I needed to be paged . Schmerg, the light is changing .  I have to move, because the risen sun is too bright in my losing eyes . Ultimately, Hank, I think a big part of being a parent is being around .  So I'm going to try that out for a while .  .  .  Why did .  .  .  what is this ? Why did no one tell me about this ?  I walked through the airport .  .  .  what ?  How did this happen ?  Has this been going on the entire video ?  Great, now the people in the airport think I'm extra crazy, because in addition to holding a video camera in front of myself, I've been half naked the entire time ! Oh my God, I have to go hide somewhere .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank; it's Tuesday .     Today I'm going to endeavor to explain what the heck sequestration is, why it's so important, and why it's so bananas .   But first, we have to understand a few things about what governments do .     So there are a lot of government programs that are super-popular with people, like, for instance, here in the US we have something called Medicare, which offers inexpensive health care to older people .  Now, Medicare is actually more efficient and cheaper per person than private insurance, but it is still very expensive, because, don't take this personally, old people, but you get sick a lot .     We also have a very popular program that offers health care to our poorer citizens called Medicaid, and between those two, that's 23% of the federal budget .  Another 22% of the budget goes to Social Security, a very popular program in which old people get checks every month so they can buy, like you know, food and computers .     By the way, I know that they're buying computers because suddenly a lot of old people are reading the Fault in Our Stars, and they keep emailing me, and the subject line is like, in all capital letters,  " MY GRANDDAUGHTER RECOMMENDED THAT I READ YOUR BOOK BECAUSE SHE THINKS THAT I AM ABOUT TO DIE; I THOUGHT IT WAS FUNNY AND SAD, GOOD JOB "  and then there's nothing in the body of the email .  So we need Social Security, because how else am I going to hear from my older readers ?     Right, so those three programs are 45% of the federal budget, and they're what's known as mandatory spending programs .  They're another 13% of our budget that is also mandatory spending, like salaries for federal judges and stuff, and the interest on our national debt is 6% of our budget .  So in total, that stuff if 64% of the federal budget .     The other 36% is discretionary spending, which Congress allocates yearly, or sometimes over multiple years, or sometimes only in 90-day segments if they're feeling very cranky and inefficient .  That's everything from like Veterans Affairs to building highways, to NASA, to science research, to meat inspectors .   But more than half of all discretionary spending doesn't go to any of that stuff, because it goes to defense .     One other piece of background information: as previously noted, the United States has a long-term debt problem, but it does not have a short-term debt problem .  Like right now, the US can borrow money extremely cheaply - arguably, like cheaper than free .      And that's because we're a very strong economy, we've never defaulted on our debt, there's no reason to think that we will, and our budget deficit - the annual difference between what we take in and what we spend - is shrinking pretty fast, and is probably not a concern at the moment .      But there is a serious long-term problem with our mandatory spending programs .  The cost of Medicare and Medicaid will double over the next 30 years as the population ages and health care costs continue to rise, and the costs for Social Security will go up too .  So in the long term, we either have to decrease benefits or increase revenues, or both, or else our budget deficit will spiral, and our debt will get more expensive, and Greece .     So we have a long-term problem which requires a long-term solution, and that brings us to the sequester .     Rights, so back in 2011, the US nearly defaulted on its sovereign debt, not because we couldn't afford to pay the debt, but because Congress was refusing to raise the debt ceiling, which is particularly hilarious because the reason we were reaching the debt ceiling is because of budgets that Congress had passed .     There seems to be a little bit of confusion about this, but:  1 .  In the United States, Congress sets the tax rates, and  2 .  In the United States, Congress sets the budget .      And so if the budget and the tax rates lead to a deficit, that is Congress' fault .  Literally .  Presidents may, like, drop by Congress to try to argue for whatever they believe in, but Presidents do not set tax rates and they do not decide the budget .     So eventually Congress passed the Budget Control Act, in which they raised the debt ceiling in order to to pay for the budget that they themselves had created .   And in this Budget Control Act, Congress created a so-called  " supercommittee "  that would address the nation's long-term fiscal problems with a grand bargain that would keep our debt from spiraling out of control and Greeceing .      And in order to force to supercommittee to do its job, Congress enacted another ticking time-bomb, because we don't have enough of those, that was originally proposed by President Obama, called sequestration .     If they didn't come to an agreement, there would be automatic cuts of $1 . 2 trillion over 10 years, half cuts to defense, and half cuts to other spending .   But vitally, very little cuts to the mandatory spending programs that are the center of the long-term fiscal problems !  Which is such an incredibly bad idea that the assumption was they would find a way to compromise, but yeah, no .     It's like if a doctor told you that you had a slow-growing tumor in your fingernail, and you responded by saying,  " Quick !  Remove my gallbladder !  "     Right, so the reason that sequestration is so bananas, is not because of the cuts themselves, it's because they're indiscriminate .  Every project, program, and activity of the United States federal government has to be cut by the exact same percentages, except for those mandatory spending programs, that are mostly exempt .     So basically, everything the government currently does, it has to do about 8% less of .  That doesn't sound that bad, but because it's every project, program, and activity, it gets super-bananas .     For instance, something sort of like this happened in 1991, with a 5% sequestration, and federal employees were literally instructed to scrape 5% less bird poop off buoys in Chesapeake Bay, because that is a project, program, or activity of the federal government .     So instead of making a choice about which federal programs we can afford to get rid of, we're just going to scrape 8% less poop off of all of the buoys .  That is bananas !     It's going to cost between half a million and two million jobs, and instead of getting rid of jobs because they're outdated or unnecessary, basically just throws a dart at a dartboard .      And more importantly, sequestration doesn't just create problems; it also fails to solve problems, because it does absolutely nothing to address the long-term fiscal problem in the US .  Because mandatory spending on Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security is continue to grow at pretty much the exact same pace .     So essentially, Hank, Congress saw a long-term problem, which they responded to by creating a short-term crisis, which they then failed to solve .     These days, the conversation on the news channels tends to be about whose terrible idea this was, with Congressional Republicans being like,  " This was President Obama's idea " , and President Obama being like,  " I'm sorry, do I create and pass legislation in this country ?  "      But this whole business about only discussing who's to blame distracts from the larger issue, which is that the sequestration is a disaster .  It's inefficient and bureaucratic and everything people don't like about government, and it does nothing to make our economy healthier .     So, to summarize, the sequester creates an unnecessary catastrophe without addressing the larger future catastrophe; it is an embarrassment .  Frankly, Hank, it is more embarrassing than our continued minting of pennies, and that's saying something .     I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank; it's Tuesday . So yesterday I had one of my teeth forcefully removed from my skull, and I'm in a lot of pain, and frankly, kind of in a bad .  .  .    What .  .  .  What .  .  .  am I in an airport ?  All right, I'm going to throw this out, if you've boarded all customers, then why .  .  .  why do you need to brag on it ? Pro tip: never make a video about how you're not going to be in an airport for six months, because then the Fates will conspire against you .  So in addition to being in considerable physical pain, Hank, there's also the psychic pain of being in an airport unexpectedly, and on my way to Los Angeles to do .  .  .  things   .  But Hank, let us not dwell on our various miseries, instead let's discuss advertising .  Now Hank, I realize that you and I are like the only two people in Nerdfighteria who are bothered by advertising, but I'm still bothered by it, so .  .  .  I'm just going to make this video for you, I guess . Now, it's not like I'm inherently bothered by like corporate sponsorship of art or whatever; here's what bothers me: Imagine you watch a one-minute video of an adorable kitten riding a Rumba .   And then, you watch a one-minute video of Minute Physics explaining like special relativity or something . The advertisers on both those videos care you as the viewer are, like they care about how old you are, and how much money you make, they probably care about what your favorite pony is .  .  . Who your favorite pony is ?  I hope I didn't just alienate the entire brony community by calling ponies  " what " 's .  But anyway, the advertisers don't really care about the difference between a kitten on a Rumba and Minute Physics; what they want is for you to lean back, and enjoy content, so that you are also leaning back and enjoying yourself when you watch their ad .  You hear this all the time when you talk to television people; they're constantly bragging about how they make  " lean-back "  entertainment . Now, Hank, it's true that there are a lot of excellent shows on television, although most of them are on cable, which is funded in part by like crowd-sourcing, but I would argue it's no coincidence that the TV shows with the strongest communities right now are not funded by advertisers .  I'm looking at you, Doctor Who .   And also you, Mr .  Handsome-batch . So Hank, to me the problem with advertising is that it doesn't incentivize the best views; it incentivizes the most views .  It says what's ultimately valuable about YouTube communities is not their passions or their achievements, but just their sizes . Like back in 2007, Hank, when we only had a few hundred regular viewers, the Nerdfighter community was still doing really interest stuff together .  Nerdfighters made their first $1000 in Kiva loans when we had fewer than 100 subscribers . So how to you make projects that are interesting and important, but don't get a million views a video, sustainable ?  Okay, so the comments of your last video basically saw five models:One, the pay wall .  You know, you don't get to watch a video unless and until you've paid to be a member .  My problem with the pay wall is that I don't think it strengthens a community to have it consist entirely of people who can afford to pay to watch stuff . Option two, Kickstartering .  Kickstarting; they probably call it Kickstarting .  Kickstarter is awesome, but it mostly makes sense for something that has an end, you know, like a movie, or an album, or a game, something that you will make and then ship . You can't really have a Kickstarter for a YouTube channel, because hopefully it will last like forever .  Eh, no, probably not forever .  Forever is an incorrect concept . Option three, everybody volunteers so the budget is zero .  I like this option - it's basically what we did with Brotherhood 2 . 0, but it's often impractical .  The thing is, people - particularly proper grown-up people, like myself, who sit around in airports pointing cameras at themselves, making everyone around them uncomfortable - like to eat, and pay rent, and stuff . Option four, sell merchandise, so people can support the thing they love, while also bragging about the thing they love .  Now that's a good idea .  Speaking of which, Brain Scoop merchandise ?  I have no involvement with the Brain Scoop, by the way, except loving it .  And then there's option five, the public radio model .  Public radio has fundraising campaigns, they have membership options, where you could donate like $3 a month or whatever, they also get some money from corporate underwriting, they sell an ass-ton of tote bags, and then they get some grant money, and some public money . In short, the money comes from many different places .  They don't require listeners to give, but they ask listeners to give, and then they explain where that money will go .   And I, at least, am always happy to be a member of my public radio station, even though I understand that I don't have to be a member in order to listen . Hank, the truth, at least for me, is that if I'm part of a community that I really value, I'm not going to support it because I get like secret perks that aren't available to other people; I'm going to support because I like it, and I want it to grow and thrive ! Whether it's Ze Frank, or WheezyWaiter, or Hannah Hart, or the South African Nerdfighter SSondiyazi, I want to find a way to say  " Thank you for making me lean forward .  "   And I just don't think advertising alone can do that - all right, I got to get on my plane . Hank, DFTBA, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank . It's Tuesday, March 26th, 2013, also known as spring .  You know, spring .  .  .  " When daisies pied, and violets blue, /  And lady-smocks all silver-white .  .  .  "   Spring,  " Thou with dewy locks, who lookest down / Through the clear windows of the morning .  .  .  "   Spring, which is like a woman who says,  " O yes, I'm here again and your heart / knows I was coming .  "   Spring, when  "  .  .  . hope of man as well / Flowers among the morning dews .  .  .  "    " A light exists in spring, "  Emily Dickinson wrote,  " Not present on the year / At any other period .  "  Where is this light, Emily Dickinson ?  Is it down there with the snow ?  Is it up there in the grey sky of doom ?  Because that looks exactly like the winter light ! Hank, when the Yeti and I first moved to Indianapolis, we dropped off the moving van at the U-Haul place, and the guy was like,  " Welcome to Indianapolis !  "  And I said,  " How long have you lived here ?  "   And he said,  " Oh, about 30 years .  "   And I said,  " Well, what do you think of it ?  "   And after a second, he said,  " Well, you gotta live somewhere .  "  I think that's probably how a lot of people feel about their hometowns, but I've really come to love Indianapolis, even in .  .  .  the spring snow . It's an unpretentious city of hidden beauty, which is by far my favorite kind of beauty, and it's lovely, even in winter .   But I am ready, Hank, I am ready for spring .  Hank, the calendar has made me a promise that outside has failed to keep, stupid outside, always ruining everything . So Hank, I don't actually believe that magical thinking works or anything, but I thought for today's video I would share my favorite poem about spring in the hopes that like spring will like happen . I also love this poem because it reminds us that poetry is partly in the business of getting us to try to pay attention .  It's by e .  e .  cummings .  " O sweet spontaneousearth how often havethedotingfingers ofprurient philosophers pinchedandpokedthee,has the naughty thumbof science proddedthybeauty, howoften have religions takenthee upon their scraggy kneessqueezing andbuffeting thee that thou mightest conceivegods  " You gotta live somewhere, Hank, but you also get to live to somewhere .  So brace yourself, my friends, spring is coming . Hank, I'll you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . Old-school Vlogbrothers video, where I talk about stuff I care about with people I care about .  Today's video's like the modern pentathlon - it comes to you in five parts . Part one, when The Fault in Our Stars first came out, people were always like,  " Is Hazel Esther ?  " ;  " I can tell that Hazel is Esther " ;  " Hazel is Esther, isn't she ?  "  and breathe . It's true that Esther was a huge inspiration for The Fault in Our Stars; I could never have written it if I hadn't known her .  By the way, new nerdfighters, Esther Earl was a nerdfighter who died in 2010 of cancer when she was sixteen .   And she was also a friend of mine and just a generally awesome person, but this book is not about her .  Esther's story doesn't belong to me; it belongs to her and to her family .  But in wonderful news, Hank, that story is going to be told !  Esther was a brilliant writer, and this book - cover not final - comes out in January 2014 .  It's going to have her diaries, and fiction that she wrote, and letters that she wrote, and stuff from her parents, and an introduction by me .  Sorry about the massive hole in my mouth, by the way; I'm hoping to have it fixed by next Tuesday . This book is going to be Esther's story, and it's amazing, and I'm so happy that it is going to be a thing in the world, and you can pre-order it now - link in the dooblydoo . Part two, the groundhog .  So Hank, here in our Indianapolis office, we have a groundhog .  We actually call him YouTube, because he spends a lot of time inside, he's easily distracted, and he knew who Hank and John were before it was cool . Anyway, YouTube's had a quiet winter, just eating grass, but now it is spring, which means that the Canadian geese have returned from .  .  .  Canada ?  Mexico ?  What am I, a wildlife biologist ? Anyway, they have returned .   And there is one particularly aggressive Canadian goose with whom YouTube is locked in a battle of supremacy .  Hank, this quiet battle of  " I shall protect my hole "  -  " Well, I shall stand here and stare at you menacingly "  had been going on for weeks, and it's impossible to get any work done .  So if my new book doesn't come out until like 2018, you know why . Part three, the TFiOS movie .  So, Hank, it seems increasingly likely - although still definitely not certain - that there will actually be a movie adaptation of my book, The Fault in Our Stars .  I know this makes Nerdfighteria nervous, and believe me, it makes me nervous, too .  But the director, Josh Boone, is a brilliant guy who really, deeply understands the books .  His first movie, Stuck in Love, doesn't come out until June, but it is really great .  Also, they just cast Shailene Woodley as Hazel .  Shailene Woodley has like a Golden Globe nomination, and a special jury award from Sundance for the Spectacular Now, a brilliant actress and she is also a huge fan of the book .  Like a real fan, Hank; she sent me a letter before any of this stuff happened . So, Hank, you're about to hear me say the most positive thing I've ever said about Hollywood .  I think we should be cautiously optimistic .   And my life is a little bit weird at the moment .   But it will go back to being normal soon . Part four, oh wait, it's not going back to being normal, because I'm about to have a human child .  Sarah just pointed out that in fact I am not going to have it - that's true, but I am going to be the father of it .  When that happens .  .  .  May, June ?  I will be going on a four- or possibly five-week paternity leave from Vlogbrothers, and also everything else .  Except probably tumblr .  I wish I knew how to quit you, tumblr . So fear not, Hank, during my absence, you will be entertained by a series of Guest Johns, including the likes of Hannah Hart, and Grace Helbig, and also someone from nerdfighteria who is currently watching this video .  Which reminds me:Part five, we are bringing back Nerd Factor .  Nerd Factor is a contest idea that we stole from Michael Buckley .  Basically, nerdfighters, you should make your favorite video - only one of your videos - a video response to this video .  Then we will watch all of the many video responses and pick our favorites as the winners of Nerd Factor . Those videos and your channels will be featured in a Vlogbrothers video in the future, and one of you will be one of the paternity leave guest hosts .  If you're willing to do it . Hank, DFTBA .  I'll see you on Friday . Whoa, ow, just trying to turn off the camera, for God's sakes .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .     I really liked your video about North Korea, and it reminded me of a book I read called  Escape From Camp 14  that I want to talk about, but I'm having some trouble finding it, so I don't know if i'm going to be able to .  .  .  let's, let's just look .     You know, my exceptionally well-catalogued home library just isn't as well cataloged as it used to be .  Yes, I found it, Hank, right where it belongs, under the German editions of  Let It Snow .  Right, so this is the story of Shin Dong-Hyuk, the only person ever known to have escaped Camp 14 .     Camp 14 is, at least we think, the worst camp for North Korean political prisoners, like the life expectancy for males there is somewhere around forty, if you don't get executed .   And the stories that have emerged from Camp 14 are truly horrifying, like for instance, a six-year-old girl who was beaten to death for stealing five kernels of corn .      But what you expect in these stories is that our hero will suffer, and he does - when Shin is fourteen, he is imprisoned in solitary confinement, where he can't stand up for eight months and tortured every day .  Also, because he was born in the camp, the child of a marriage arranged by guards, he has never in his life eaten a legal meal other than gruel made of cabbage and corn .      And, because malnutrition is universal in Camp 14, and death by starvation is very common, access to food is a very important incentive .  By the way, people make jokes about North Korea, but it is not funny .  This is not going to be a funny video .     Now, Hank, the other thing you have to expect in a story like this, is that the hero will have an indomitable will and some kind of moral center that carries him through all of his trials and tribulations .  Which is why it's so confounding when, in the first chapter, you learn that this guy, Shin, when he was fourteen, turned his mother into the authorities when he overheard her talking about escaping .      And then eventually both Shin's mom and his brother were executed .     Shin witnessed this execution, and at the time, he felt it was appropriate .  Shin was born into a world where, if you hear people talking about escaping, you should tell on them, and then they should be executed .  That was moral .     Also, he knew from having witnessed it that if he didn't tell on his family, and they did escape, he would be executed .  Which makes his own escape even more ethically complicated, because he knows he put what remains of his family at risk .      And at least to hear Shin tell it, his escape wasn't motivated by his indomitable human will seeking freedom; he just wanted food !  He became friends with one of the few people who'd lived outside of the camp, and that guy was like,  " You should see the food they have in China !  It's endless !  "     So Shin decided to escape, because he wanted the endless food they had in China .     Hank, I'll tell you why I never believed this whole  " the human spirit can't be broken "  thing .  You may remember that in March of 2007, I was hospitalized with an infection behind my eye .  This infection was not like life-threatening, Hank .  It wasn't even really eye-threatening .      But it was pretty miserable and uncomfortable, and I remember staring up at the acoustic ceiling tiles of the hospital at like 2:30 in the morning one time, and thinking like  " Eh, I'm ready for death .  "     Like, the problem with extracting information via torture, other than it being wrong, is not that people won't talk; it's that they will talk so much, they will say anything to make the pain stop .  So the information you get isn't reliable .     So what makes this story amazing is not the strength of the human will, but the fragility of it .   And what makes Shin a hero is not that he's born with some ethical center; it's that he develops it, in China and South Korea and the United States, after his escape .     He is, as he says,  " evolving into a human being .  "  Most of us undergo that evolution so early that it feels innate, but North Korea reminds us: it's not .     Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank; it's Tuesday .     Yesterday, I saw this on my tumblr dashboard and immediately knew that something was very wrong .     It turns out that there were coordinated attacks near the finish line of the Boston marathon, killing at least 2 people and injuring more than a hundred .  I don't really know what to say about any of it, Hank; I mean, to call this attack cowardly is an insult to cowards .     So Hank, as I'm recording this - by the way, I'm on my way to the dentist, and yes, I know that my seat belt is not buckled, but to be fair, I am in a parking lot - anyway, we don't currently know who is responsible for what happened to the marathon .      But if you look at the videos   you see two extraordinary things:    First, you see all these flags along the race route, all these representations of nationalism .  I mean, the flag is the thing that you turn to when you sing your national anthem, it's the thing that you pledge allegiance to, it's a symbol of you being part of a particular us .  The Zambian us, the Norwegian us, the American us .      And by extension, all the people who aren't American or Norwegian or Zambian are part of a them .      But in the videos from the marathon bombings, you see all these flags lined up together, none higher than any other .  Those 96 flags representing the nations of people running the Boston marathon are side by side, because they stand for a larger us - an us sharing a human endeavor that doesn't require a them .      And the flags aren't blown over by the explosion, but within seconds, some of those flags do come down .  They come down when people - onlookers, volunteers, first responders - tear down the barricades to get to the injured .      " Look for the helpers, "  the great Mr Rogers said about tragedies .   " You will always find people who are helping .  "      And we do, Hank .  There were coordinated attacks in Iraq yesterday that killed dozens of people - and there were helpers .     There was a tremendous earthquake at the Iran-Pakistan border this morning - and there are helpers .     Hank, I'm cool with living in a world with flags, but I am most proud to live in a world that could hold events where no flag flies above any other .  There are people who don't want to live in that world, Hank, but I know that we are not going to give it up .      And I know that we can always look in hope to the helpers, and endeavor to be among them .     Hank, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . Your video on Friday was really inspirational because it reminded me that even after six and half years of making youtube videos, there is still room to do new things and be creative .   And we're so lucky because nerdfighters aren't like go-back-to-doing-the-old-thing .  They're willing to change and grow with us .  So, in that spirit, I thought that today I would make a video on my way to the dentist . So Hank, as you know, for many years, I have been the least educated member of our family .  You and The Katherine are both Masters of Science .  The Yeti is a Master of Art .  Whereas I am a mere Bachelor of Arts .   And that's just not an impressive title at all, Hank, because anyone can be a bachelor -- all you have to do is be an unmarried male .  I mean, my three year old son can't read, but he's a bachelor .  But that's all about to change Hank, because on May 11th, thanks to  Butler University, I am going to become a Doctor .  Specifically, an honorary doctor . Hank this means that if I'm on a plane and the flight attendant is like,  " Is there a doctor on board ?  "  I can be like  " Yes !  "   And the flight attendant will be like,  " This lady is having a heart attack !  "   And I'll be like,  " Well, that's not really my field .  I'm an honorary doctor of letters .  Maybe I could write her a poem ?  " Hank, the degree I'm getting is called a DLit or a Litterarum Doctor, which I might be mispronouncing, because again, the degree is honorary .   And it's something called a higher doctorate because technically it's higher than a PhD, which of course stands for Ph, Doctor . Now, Hank, I know what you're wondering .  Am I going to lord it over you now that you are a mere Master and I am a soon-to-be higher doctor ?  Absolutely not, Hank !  As a doctor, I am humble, I'm generous, and I don't judge .  Gaaah !  I just looked on Wikipedia and it turns out I cannot call myself a doctor .  By the way, Wikipedia -- the only source trusted by honorary doctors . It seems that a few people over the years have called themselves doctor after receiving an honorary doctorate, including noted inventor and founding father of the United States, Benjamin Franklin, who called himself Dr .  Franklin after receiving an honorary degree from the College of William and Mary in 1758 .   But that was the eighteenth century; these days, it is frowned upon to call yourself a doctor when you have not actually earned the title . Also Hank, you know the lexicographer and professional quote machine Dr .  Samuel Johnson ?  You know the guy who said that hell was paved with good intentions and that patriotism is the last refuge of the scoundrel, who wrote that a cucumber shall be well sliced, then dressed with pepper and vinegar, and then thrown out as good for nothing ?  Yeah, he was just an honorary doctor !  Hank, one more quote from the great honorary doctor,  " What is written without effort, is, in general, read without pleasure .  " In short, Hank, I will be in excellent company as an honorary doctor but I will still just be a mister .  Lastly, Hank, I just wanted to take a second to be grateful while I am in quite a bit of, like, chronic dental pain, I am very happy that the Fault in Our Stars, after 15 months of being out, has returned to number one on the New York Times Bestseller list, passing my friend -- should I call him my friend ?  Maybe just acquaintance ?  No, friend !  -- my friend Stephen Chbosky, the author of the amazing book, Perks of Being a Wallflower, which is now number two .  Suck it, Chbosky ! Hank, DFTBA, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .   Hank, some days .  .  .  some days, I just want to be a professional critic of gifs   featuring animals interrupting sporting events .    " Anfield Cat "  is of course a classic of the genre, in which a cat finds itself on the pitch for a Liverpool game .  Is the cat trying to reflect something about Liverpool's own confused, inconsistent defending ?  No, I think Anfield Cat's indecision is best read as a metaphor for human life itself - isolated, afraid, but still resilient .    " Squirrel interrupts U . S .  Open "  reminds us that it's not only human animals who can display their talents on a tennis court .  The height of that jump, the squirrel's balletic run, followed by a pause at the center of the net to ensure that everyone is watching, and then yes, observe that jaunty run !  Ultimately, Hank, sports is not only about winning and losing; it's also about displaying what physical bodies can do, including and perhaps especially squirrel bodies .    " Dog Pooping at Baseball Game "  wouldn't usually be my kind of GIF  , Hank, I prefer the higher-brow animals interrupting sporting events animations .   But despite the grainy, low-fied camera work here, there's something very compelling .  The dog is literally crapping on the game, as if to say,  " I reject your obsessive fascination with sports !  "  The dog seems to be asking,  " Which of us is really sentient: you, mindlessly watching men attempt to hit a ball with a wooden stick, or me, elegantly articulating my feelings via defecation ?  "   Now, of course,  " Dog on the Pitch "  is so common that it's a world unto itself, but what moves me about  " Dog on the Pitch "  in all its iterations is its reminder by the dogs, that sports are ultimately about play .   For me, the comic pinnacle here is  " Goalkeeper Dogcatcher FAIL " , but the greatest of these gifs  , unquestionably, is  " Drunk Dog Wants to Play "  .  this swift and relentless attack of the ball asks many important questions: Are there drugs in the ball ?  What kind of drugs could you put in the soccer ball ?  Would it affect the performance of the ball ?   And most importantly, why wasn't Air Bud 3: World Pup a better movie ?   Like all great gifs  ,  " Mexican Drunk Dog Wants to Play "  refuses to answer these questions directly or in a fully satisfying way; instead, this work of art leaves us unsettled, but enlarged .    " Fox Absconds with Golf Ball "  is another brilliant rejection of sport itself .  The fox seems to be saying,  " You believe you can come onto this course and escape the ambiguity and randomness that haunts every moment of life on Earth, but no matter how well you water the greens, and mow the fairway, I will be here to remind you that you will never escape it !  "    And that brings us to what is, in my opinion, the greatest animal interrupting a sporting event GIF   of all time .  Hank, most sports stories lack a complex moral narrative - like, you want Rooney to play because he's little and full of hustle; you want that guy from The Blind Side to guy that guy from the Baltimore Ravens, because he had a hard life, and Sandra Bullock loves him .  You want Teen Wolf to make the big shot, because he has long suffered under the twin burdens of teenager-hood and werewolfdom .    But Hank, while we crave that moral simplicity, the truly great animals interrupting sporting event gifs   refuse to give it to us .   And in my mind, the greatest among them is of course  " Pine Marten Invades Swiss Soccer Match "  .  First, there's the shocking surprise that Switzerland has a professional football league, not to mention the quality of the footage and the camerawork .  Then there's the full-throated commitment to both the pine marten, who wishes to stay on the pitch, and its human defender, who wishes to remove it from the pitch .   Now, Hank, in most stories, the heroes are simply good and the villains are simply evil, but for whom are we to root in this GIF   ?  When the pine marten bites the human, we naturally feel put off; it isn't sporting to bite a fellow competitor .  On the other hand, the defender has clearly fouled the pine marten, tackling it from behind as it races toward the goal .  That's a red card !  Who is the victim ?  Who is the perpetrator ?  Who is good ?  Who is bad ?  Like all great interrogations of the universe,  " Pine Marten Invades Swiss Soccer Pitch "  offers no easy answer; instead, it asks us to consider the possibility that the pine marten, the defender, and indeed, each of us, contain multitudes .   Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
  Good morning, Hank; it's Tuesday . It's  " Take Your Brother To Work "  Day !  Oh, look !  There you are, right in the entryway ! So you walk in, first thing you see is the Crash Course posters, and some foreign editions of The Fault in Our Stars, and then you see Danica's Mac, with its wiggly eyes .   And Danica herself !  Hi Danica !    Danica works on Crash Course - she does all the chalkboard drawings that are so excellent, and also the mental_floss set . Then you come to our printer room, where Will Wheaton and Felicia Day have the place of honor, and then you spin around, and look, oh it's Meredith !  Who doesn't want to be on TV today .  Meredith writes for mental_floss but more importantly is the CEO of the Swindon Town Swoodilypoopers .  And then we come to my office .  Oh, hi there, Buster Scared-of-sheep .  This is my couch, this is the La-Z-Boy where I've written at least parts of every single one of my books, and this is my treadmill desk, where I've taken 360 whole steps today !  Oh, and what ?  A signed Pele jersey that says,  " To J .  Green, DFTBA, Good luck, Pele " , what ? This is the television where the Swindon Town Swoodilypoopers come to life, and this is a painting by Sarah . So, Hank, before Sarah and I started dating, I actually bought that painting from her, and then, months later, when she came over to my apartment for the first time, while we were dating, I was like,  " Oh, look, I framed your beautiful painting !  "  and she said,  " Yeah, that's upside-down .  " Sometimes people ask me for romantic advice .  My advice ?  Hang your future girlfriend's painting right-side up, for God's sakes ! I was thinking of all my foreign editions of The Fault in Our Stars here, like Das Schicksal ist ein mieser Verrater, Forr eller senare exploderar jag, Faen ta sklebnen, Tahtiin kirjoitettu virhe !  Then, of course, there's Gwiazd naszych wina, Nos etoiles contraires - I actually took French - and the ones I have no idea of even pretending to know how to attempt . Also in my office, we have Leonardo's Leonardo .  But most importantly, we have this beautiful view of the river, including Canada geese .  I used to say Canadian geese, Hank, but then Canadians informed me - politely !  - that that was incorrect .   " Geese don't have a nationality !  "  they said,  " Thank you for mentioning Canada .  " Baby ducks, baby ducks, baby ducks !  Duckies .  .  .  !  And then we go down the hall, and we have the kitchen, featuring artwork by my lovely son Henry Green, as well as posters, available now at dftba . com ! We have to keep all the Clif Bars in here, because mice ! Here is the tiger who does all the dishes; thanks, tiger ! This is apparently the jar where we keep all the action figures, you know, so they don't get out and wreak havoc . This is the room where we shoot mental_floss, where Stan and Mark also work .  There's the mental_floss set .  Mark's the producer and director of the mental_floss channel; 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday .  It's Question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real Nerdfighters .  Let's get right to it .     What's your least favorite kind of animal ?   Mice, who lord over theme parks .     What's your favorite dance move ?   This one: you take this guy up and then, oh !  You're dancin' !  I'm dancin' !    Ow .  I want to apologize to my printer .     Why does everyone like ferrets so much ?   I don't know who you're hanging out with, but that is not an issue in my house .     What's your favorite photograph ?   This one, called  " Young Farmers, "  also sometimes known as  " Three Farmers on Their Way to a Dance, August 1914 .  "  There were two dances that they were on their way to, of course, the one they knew about, and World War I .     How's Willie ?   He's good .  Here, you can watch him for the next several questions .     TFiOS casting ?  !   Yes, Ansel Elgort has been cast as Augustus Waters, and Hazel Grace Lancaster will be played by Shailene Woodley .      But I am a giant squid of anger about this !   Yeah, that's not a question, but I am grateful that you are passionate about the book and want it to be a good movie, but you have to understand: I also want it to be a good movie, and I've actually seen the auditions, and you aren't going to think,  " Oh, that's Shailene Woodley, or oh, that's the guy who plays Caleb Prior in Divergent .  You're just going to think,  " Oh, that's Hazel and Gus .  "     How much say do you actually have in casting ?   A surprising amount .  I mean, I'm definitely not casting the movie, but the producers and the director have been really, really nice about including me in everything .     What'd you think of the Gatsby movie ?   Myeehhhh .  .  .     Hey, what would you do if you were invisible for an hour ?   I would go to the emergency room .  I mean, I'm pretty hypochondriacal, but I assume that anyone who suddenly became invisible would proceed with some haste to the nearest health care provider, and be like,  " Why am I invisible ?  I Googled it, but there is nothing in the medical literature .  Perhaps we should do a CAT scan .  "     How many times a day do you check your cell phone ?    .  .  . I'm sorry, what's that ?     Are you good at multitasking ?   Studies consistently show that the better people think are at multitasking, the worse they actually are .   And I am great at it .     How's it feel to be a doctor ?   Not the same as it felt before, actually .     Did they let you keep your cape thing ?   Did they ?  !  I've hardly taken it off !  By the way, it is technically known as a  " cape thing .  "     Would you rather fight a rabid badger or Nicolas Cage ?   Well, I'm going to have to know more about the badger .  Is it a regular badger or a honey badger ?  Is it, like, a baby badger ?  If it's a regular, baby badger, I'm gonna take the rabid badger .  Otherwise, definitely Nic Cage .     If you could only recommend one book to Nerdfighteria, what would it be ?   Well, that changes weekly .  At the moment, my recommendation for zombie novels is The End Games by T .  Michael Martin .  For non-zombie novels, I'm gonna recommend How to Get Filthy Rich in Rising Asia .     If I were to gift you a Pegasus, what color would you like it to be ?   Listen, that's very nice of you, but I do not want a Pegasus .  First, there's the fact that I don't have a barn in which to house a Pegasus .  Also, there's the not insignificant cost of hay .  Plus, I've always found flying pets to be kind of more trouble than they're worth .     Hey, where do the ducks go when the pond freezes over ?   They migrate south, except in the actual case of Holden Caulfield, wondering what happens to the ducks in the Central Park pond .  They do not migrate south because the pond never freezes over .  As the official photographer for Central Park put it,  " I don't know what Salinger was thinking .  I've worked at the Park for 27 years, and I've always seen ducks in the winter .  "     Have you ever been tempted to get Nerdfighters to tame honey badgers so you could have a Broadway musical starring honey badgers ?   Yeah, I can see the headline now:  " Man Convinces Children to Tame Honey Badgers for Strange Broadway Musical .  Seven Dead, Including No Honey Badgers .  "     Hank, DFTBA .  I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  I finished filming CrashCourse US History early yesterday so I drove down to the Indianapolis Museum of Art where Sarah is a curator .  By the way, we have our own spring snow in Indianapolis !  Walked into the museum and then into the entry lobby, currently home to this installation by the great Spencer Finch called  " Following Nature, "  which Sarah curated, and which abstractly recreates Monet's famous garden at Giverny .  Upstairs I went to visit  " Ai Weiwei: According to What ?  "  I think Ai Weiwei is probably the most important artist alive, and my wife, not to brag, is responsible for this show's only tour stop in the Midwest .  The show follows Ai's entire career .  He lived in New York from 1981-1993, hanging out with the likes of Allen Ginsberg, working as a photojournalist, taking many pictures of himself, and then he returned to China and worked in the artist community Beijing East Village which included many Chinese performance artists who'd later become, like, wildly famous .   But you've probably never heard of them, Hank, because this isn't really your scene .   And it's kinda like trying to explain to someone how super famous and amazing DailyGrace is, and they're just like,  " Oh, you mean the girl from the Lowe's commercials ?  "  Anyway, Ai Weiwei went on to his Lowe's commercial, consulting on the Bird's Nest from the Beijing Olympics, which you probably do remember, although he later distanced himself from it, calling the entire affair  " a pretend to smile, "  which, if you remember the Beijing opening ceremony .  .  .  yeah .  He has continued to take pictures of himself including this one when he was detained by the police and beaten so badly that he suffered a subdural hematoma .  He uploaded that selfie to Twitter, by the way .  Ai is primarily famous on tumblr for flicking off important buildings, but his work is very broad, and -- as is often the case with contemporary art -- it can be difficult to see what's so interesting without context .  Like these sculptures, each made of more than 2,000 lbs .  of pressed tea leaves, call to mind the minimalist sculptures of the likes of Donald Judd and Carl  Andre .   But Ai uses distinctly Chinese material, material that has long been imported by the West .  What is being appropriated, and by whom, in these cultural and economic exchanges ?  Or look at this neolithic vase painted with the Coke logo .  Or this triptych of Ai dropping a Han Dynasty urn .  How do we respond when confronted with the reality that the destruction of the old is inherent to creating anything new ?  These are interesting and important questions -- both for art historians and for regular people -- but by far my favorite work in the Ai Weiwei show is this: 38 tons of steel rebar arranged in undulating waves .  After the 2008 Sichuan earthquake, Ai went there and photographed the rescue efforts, the destroyed buildings, the awful clusters of backpacks belonging to dead children .  Many blame shoddy construction by corrupt government contractors for the collapse of so many schools .  More than 5,000 children died, and Ai spearheaded the project to record their names .  As you stand in the gallery, you hear those names read aloud .  This is one of the saddest wall labels I've ever seen:  " Recording time: 3 hours, 41 minutes .  "  All this steel is from destroyed schools .  It was bent and buckled by the earthquake, and then Ai and his assistants hammered all of it, all 38 tons of it, straight again .   " Poetry makes nothing happen, "  W .  H .  Auden once famously wrote .   " It is a way of happening, a mouth .  "  Straightening this rebar didn't bring back those children or hold the shoddy contractors accountable .  It made nothing happen .   But the way of happening threatens the Chinese government enough that they detain and threaten Ai Weiwei because, in a world supersaturated with tragic statistics where even photographs and videos can lose their punch, Ai found a way to bring form to love, and anger, and grief .  That's why good art matters so much, Hank, and why it has always mattered, even if it does make nothing happen .  I'll see you on Friday .                   
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday May 28, 2013 .  You know, something just occurred to me - I've probably said  " Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday "  like 600 times in my life and I only just now realized that  " Tuesday "  is probably because it's the second day . Nnnnnope, in fact, it is named for Tiw, the proto-Germanic god of war .  Hank, today's video comes in three parts . Part one: a quick response to your video about tumblr and start-ups and the monetization of cool things .  I think the underlying problem is that almost everything on the internet is dependent upon advertising, and advertisers, in my opinion, are terrible at measuring the value in the creator-viewer relationship . Hank, advertisers care much more about the number of views than the quality of views .  So for instance, Thoughts From Places videos are consistently the least viewed videos on the Vlogbrothers channel .  So the advertising revenue model tells us to stop making Thoughts From Places videos and focus on, like, giraffe sex .  But in fact, Hank, we know from comments and conversations with Nerdfighters that the Thoughts From Places videos are among their favorites .  The people we really want to love our videos love those videos - dare I say it ?  - more than giraffe sex ! Now Hank, don't get me wrong, I dig giraffe sex, but I want a broader Internet .   And I worry that tumblr and Facebook and even YouTube can only support that breadth as long as they are willing to lose money .  So Hank, please fix this problem during my paternity leave, okay ?  Thanks . Part two: Nerd Factor .  Thank you so much to the more than 1600 people who posted videos to the Nerdfactor competition, I am very sad that I can only be replaced by two of you .   But to quote Tiw, the great proto-Germanic god of war,  " There must always be a victor .  "  It's not really a quote . So our first winner is .  .  .  MagicTurtle643 !    Check out this teacup I got !   And look what it comes with !   And what's this supposed to be, a checklist ?  Tea, tea, tea ?  Well, check, check, check !  Mmm, oh man, nothin' in there .  Look, they both have the same drowsy bear in a nightgown !   And this is my personal favorite, the instant chrysanthemum beverage !  I'm not sure if this is actually tea or not, and I have to be honest, I haven't actually tried this one, because I'm pretty sure there was a packaging error, and instead of a chrysanthemum beverage, I wound up with packets of Chinese rat poison . Hank, this guy's been making videos for more than five years, he's participated in the Project for Awesome, and he has fewer than 700 subscribers, and he's hilarious .  So let's change that . So he will be playing the role of me on some forthcoming Tuesday of my paternity leave, as will .  .  .  Nerdy AndQuirky !   Hello .  Welcome to Nerdy AndQuirky .  As a fourteen year old with the emotional maturity, of, say, an unearthed potato, I feel like it's my responsibility to tell you all how to attract human, with romantic undertones, because Valentine's Day . Nerdy AndQuirky is one of the best YouTubers I have come across in years .  Take a gander at this clip from her video about fangirls .    You may also find your fangirl in tears .  Do not approach .  This is their most dangerous state, when they are prone to lash out .  Take care of them from a distance .  There, there, fangirl .  The new season starts next fall, unless it's from NBC . So Hank, those are the the two nerdfighters who will be standing in for me during my paternity leave; however, I want to declare two more winners, both singers .  First: Ruby Day .   Aw man, that is good .   And second, the Swot Sisters .   Hank, the whole song is amazing; there are links to all these channels in the dooblydoo; they are all excellent !  So please check them out, and subscribe to them .  Thank you to everyone who submitted to Nerd Factor, and especially to Danica, who helped make all of this possible .  .  .  .  .  . and now Part three !  Hank, do you remember I had that special edition TFIOS audiobook narrated by me, with like a bonus DVD and stuff, was available for a while on DFTBA . com ?  It is back !  Available for pre-order now, link in the doobly-doo, or you can just click there . Hank, I will see you on Friday - little-known fact- named for Stephen Fry .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday - oh, s*** .   I'm so sorry, this is .  .  .  not my channel, and I'm not allowed to do that here, and I apologize .  Oh .  .  .  what a terrible first impression .   And it's still going .  Cut to a thing .  .  .   Hello, my name is Grace Helbig, or I go by DailyGrace here on YouTube, because I make daily videos, five days a week .  I have been graced with the wonderful honor of filling in for John Green while he's away, dealing with the spawn that has happened, through him, with him, and in his wife .   The Vlogbrothers have been very inspiration to me; they are, duh, very smart, articulate, nurturing, progressive community-driven human beings that exist based on our happiness and their own brains' fortitude, and so it is really stressful to have to fill in for one of them .  I have been racking my brain for weeks, thinking of,  " What should I do for this video ?  "    And I came to a conclusion - I am not as smart as them .  I am going to teach you how to trick people into thinking that maybe you're more intelligent, or cultural, or socially sophisticated, than you really are .  Let's do this !   1 .  Try to use the word  " derivative "  when describing something you have just seen, in that,  " That art was derivative of this other piece of art .  "   2 .  Sprinkle in the fact that whatever you are talking about reminds you of the film Basquiat .   3 .  Carry a copy of On The Road in your back pocket .   4 .  Throw in a joke like this every now and then -  " Gah, I am done waiting for Godot; I've got to Go .  .  .  dot .  "   5 .  Don't have your email up on your computer when you're shooting a video .   6 .  Tell people you watch Bill Maher .   7 .  You also love watching soccer !   8 .  FIFA !  Isn't Paris Hilton's dog's name .   9 .  Carry around a moleskin journal .   10 .  Yeah, you don't drink coffee unless it's through a French press .   11 .  Yeah, you carry a messenger bag, and it's leather .   12 .  Yeah, you wear glasses, and yeah, 90% of the time, they're not clean, because yeah, you're thinking about more important things .   13 .  You know the name of a cheese that is not mozzarella or cheddar .   14 .  Own a cheese board and/or cheese knife, because -- spoiler alert -- regular knives don't cut cheese .  Google it; there are tiny, specific instruments that are for cutting cheese .  Cavemen would lose their tiny, tiny brains about it -- you know how they cut cheese ?  Rocks .  You know what they didn't have ?  Cheese .   15 .  You shop at Whole Foods .  Ralph's ?  That's a man's name, not a grocery store .   16 .  You buy your cheese from the cheese section of Whole Foods, and when you do buy it, you ask them questions like you're in a spelling bee --  " Can I get the country of origin ?  "   " Can you use this cheese in a sandwich ?  "   17 .  You have a typewriter in your house .   18 .  NPR is one of the set radio stations in your car .   19 .  You don't think the words Roth IRA are just me naming a member of Congress with a speech impediment .   20 .  You have a very specific favorite episode of The Simpsons .   21 .   And/or a very specific favorite character that isn't Lisa, Bart, Maggie, Marge, or Homer .   22 .  You think the brand-new season of Arrested Development is way more  " nostalgic "  than it is  " groundbreaking "  .   23 .  You buy scones !   24 .  You own a wine decanter !  Because wine is apparently a living organism and needs to breathe !  'Cause that's going to make it taste entirely different than metal and fruit .   25 .  You either wear a non-digital watch,  26 .  Or one that looks like a tiny calculator .   27 .  Re-blog the New Yorker !   28 .  Order mac and cheese at restaurants, but only when it has Gruyere cheese in it !  A lot of this is about cheese .   29 .  You love Wes  Anderson movies .   30 .  It's not delicious unless it's covered in truffle oil .   31 .  Try calling lines queues !   32 .  Your children's names don't end in A .   33 .  You use the words Ira Glass,  34 .   And Neil deGrasse Tyson .   35 .  Pretend you don't know the Food Network cable box number, 350 .  I don't !  What ?   36 .  Buy a telescope .   37 .  Buy one book about architecture .   38 .  Download Rosetta Stone, but like you're not going to use it .  I have French and Spanish .   39 .  Get a friend with a Prius .   40 .  Tell everyone you still can't get over Alanis Morissette's misuse of ironic .   41 .  Let everyone know you follow Ken Jennings on Twitter, and he's actually really funny !   42 .  You've tried whittling .   43 .  Own a piece of furniture that's made out of leather .   44 .  You only drink scotch,  45 .  Or rye whiskey .   46 .  You have smoking pipes .   47 .  There's probably like three museums at least that you want to try to get to in the next month .   48 .  You've been talking about getting Ethiopian food for five years .   49 .  Yeah, you have a bike .  Hanging on your wall .   50 .  You understand sarcasm .   Hank, I'll see you on Friday .  I labored over this - but not like John's wife .  Hey oh !  All right .                 
Good morning Hank .  It's Tuesday .  Yeah, I do say Tuesday weird .  DEAL WITH IT !  If you didn't know, I'm the Nerd Factor Winner known as NerdyandQuirky .  Hi .     Following the pattern formed by previous videos, I am not John .  I am about as not John as possible .      What I am is a 15-year-old, living in the modern era, experiencing teenage life and noticing all the unfortunate things my peers and I do .     So, Hank, I'm here like a ghost in a Dickens novel to warn you about the annoying things your niece and nephew might do .  At least according to STEREOTYPES !  OPRAH HANDS !  !     Friends and social life will basically become more important than anything else .  I'm not being exclusive to social interactions that take place in  " real life " , because *pfft* that would probably involve going outside and let's be honest .     --  Responsible Sabrina: Sabrina, it's time for dinner .   Teenage Sabrina: *Hiss* Not now .  Alex and I are re-writing  " The Book of Mormon "  .   Responsible Sabrina: What- ?   Teenage Sabrina: I'll eat later .   --    Diets will range from eating no food the whole day to eating all the food in the world .  Let me tell ya, if I'm left to my own devices, I will forget to eat the whole day until the sound of my stomach growling is louder than the YouTube video I'm watching .      And then I'll microwave something, probably a bag of popcorn .  Then I'll eat a bag of chips, then some crackers, probably some cheese .  Then to counteract how salty that was, I'll probably eat some ice cream or cake .  There's a science to it .  The science of delicious .     Next, they will fangirl .  This affects both genders .  This fangirling may be targeted at people .  Said people may be older than you .  It's kind of weird, but don't worry too much about it .     Also, there will be a stage in life when meme quoting is done unironically .   --  Meme Sabrina: I'm staring straight into the sun, because .  .  .  YOLO !  !   --  Then it's gonna move to its ironic usage  --  Meme Sabrina: Make bananas in the toaster .  .  .  YOLO !   --  Then this usage will continue until it once again becomes unironic .   --  Meme Sabrina: Catching up on current events .  .  .  YOLO !   --  There will also be slurred speech  --  Cellphone Sabrina: Yeah, so I told him to shutup because Community's a really underrated comedy and   right ?   Sabrina on the phone: You're so right !   Cellphone Sabrina: Yeah !   --  Bad Vision  --  Internet Sabrina  : You are the prettiest thing I've ever seen in ever .     No wait, I changed my mind .  You are .     No wait, changed my mind again .   --  Trouble Breathing .   --  Responsible Sabrina: How was your day ?   Internet Sabrina: UGGGH *Falls onto bed*  --  Weird, these are starting to sound like medicine warnings .  As if the very act of aging is like taking medicine .  The experience is making us more mature and intelligent with possible negative side affects !    --  Internet Sabrina: *crying*  --  Did I actually just pull a metaphor out of that ?  YES I DID !  *pfft* What do you mean it was a stretch ?  Excuse you !  Who do you think I am ?  John Green ?      Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday .  I'm Maureen Johnson, filling in for John Green because once again he has contributed to the birth of a human child .  This is really nerve-racking for me because I'm a writer like John but, like, I don't make videos all the time and, you know, I don't really think I'm good at it .  So, you know, I got my camera, I got my watermelon .  .  . Today's topic is the Internet .  Yeah, the Internet !  The whole thing !  Some people don't like the Internet, and it can be for a number of reasons .  For example, there are people like my mom who gets confused by the Internet and generally doesn't know how it works and is constantly afraid she's going to break it . Maureen's mom, watching the Google home page fall apart: Maureen ?  Maureen ?  Maureen ? Maureen: The people that hate or dismiss the Internet often say things like,  " Well, back when I was a kid, you know, we didn't just sit around and watch porn all the time and make animated giffies .  "  Now yeah, that may be true, but you probably also didn't engage in a political discussion with a thousand people, so shut up .  I'm not saying the level of discourse is always high .  I mean, I filled in for John when he went on paternity leave the first time, and on my first video, 90% of the comments just said,  " Oh my god !  John has boobs !  " Sometimes we are going to get breaking news from the middle of a seed of government and sometimes we're going to have--Maureen, hugging a pillow: I just really love cats and *sniffles* I want them to be on a rainbow . Maureen: The last couple weeks have been pretty fraught .  There's been a lot going on in the media and the world that it's kind of hard to talk about .  It makes us both want to talk all the time and not know how to talk at all .  There's a lot of split opinions .  It's hard to know what to say to people who are of a different viewpoint than you without screaming or ripping out your hair or just going nuts and turning into some sort of crazy troll just going around the internet going  " troll, troll, troll, I just want to watch the world burn .  "   And that is not productive .  But it doesn't mean we can't talk about these things that are difficult, where our opinions differ wildly .  In fact, we have to talk about these things .   And I think in many ways the Internet is teaching us how to talk to each other in a big way, in a big way that we've never done before, and we are just learning the language of mass discussion .   But it's easy to say we can use the Internet to talk about things, but we all know it's actually really difficult .  That's why, you know, the one rule of the Internet is don't read the comments !  But okay, too late, you've read the comments, it's already done, what do you do now ?  Pause .  Breathe .  Look at some cats .   And ask yourself, what do you want to accomplish ?  Do you want to further a good cause that you're already a part of, or do you want to punch a troll in the face ?   And you probably want to do both of those things, but you're probably only going to be able to accomplish one of them, and it probably shouldn't be 2, so focus on 1 .  Does it improve the situation of the cause, or whatever it is you're trying to promote or encourage or talk about to just punch a troll in the face ?   And the answer, unfortunately, is probably not .  It doesn't make your side look good, it doesn't further the discussion, so therefore sadly a lot of times you're not going to be able to make that comment into a teachable mome .  .  .  Oh, what am I even talking about ?  Just go for it !  Just answer all the trolls .  Just do it .  Now !  *shouting* Troll patrol starts now !  Let's do this thing ! Honestly, start here .  Start on this .  .  .  start on this video .  Start looking in the comments now and be like  " ur dumb "   " no ur dumb "   " boobs " No one knows how to Internet .  If anybody tells you they know how to Internet, tell them to go eat some watermelon 'cause that's the only thing that makes sense in this mixed-up world of ours . I don't know what you people want from me .  Just follow me on Twitter or something, I don't know .    I'm good at Twitter .  I'm good at Twitter .  I'm not .  .  .  I'm not great at videos .  I'm very, very good at Twitter, though .  Go there . Maureen, whimpering: I can't turn down my cat !  I'm sorry !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  So I want to talk about Shailene Woodley and her beautiful hair, but let's begin at the University of California at Berkeley, where for the last couple years psychologists have been engaging in a series of fascinating experiments centered on the board game Monopoly .  Because, you know, that's what psychologists do with grant money . So all these Monopoly games are set up, but in each of them, one player has a huge advantage, like starting with more money for instance .  Basically, the game is rigged, but the crazy thing is that the people the game is rigged in favor of come to believe over time that the game is more fair than it actually is, and that in fact they deserve their advantages .  Similarly, a bunch of studies have shown that rich and/or successful people tend to be the least empathetic, the least generous, and-- this is completely true, Hank-- they are more likely to steal candy from a baby . This is all a function of something called the Just World Fallacy .  Most of us believe, and in fact can't help but believe, that people in essence get what they deserve in life .   And the Just World Fallacy has the effect of making rich or successful people less empathetic and less generous because they believe that they deserve their success, and that also, people who are less successful deserve that lack of success .  But it's important to note that this doesn't just apply to, like, Wall Street bankers .  It's also true for all of us .  Like, Hank, the vast majority of people watching this video feel entitled to own or at least regularly ride in cars, and yet if all seven billion people on Earth had the same relationship with automobiles that I have, we would be totally screwed as a planet .  Not just ecologically, but also the traffic .  But the weirdest and possibly most troubling part of this research is that no matter who you give the advantage to in these rigged games of Monopoly, people tend to behave in pretty much the same way .  Hank, that means that on some level, people aren't wielding power .  Power is wielding people . I've been thinking about this ever since noted rapper and public intellectual Lupe Fiasco tweeted about it .   " When man does harness power can he only do so in the same tradition as those who have had it before him ?   And thus yield only the SAME results as those who had power before him ?  "  Now Hank, I often disagree with Lupe Fiasco, but those are very interesting and provocative questions .  Like, we all know the disappointment of electing a new leader and expecting things to really change, only to find out that change is .  .  .  sort of .  .  .  measured .  But maybe that's true not only in politics, but also at, like, middle school playgrounds .  The Monopoly experiments imply that maybe in the end, individuals are just vehicles through which power is wielded .   And Hank, that would mean that even very powerful people are in fact not that powerful at all-- they're just doing what power tells them to do .  " Hank, I'm concerned about this in my own life, "  he said, just noticing that his shirt matches the wall .  Right, but anyway I'm concerned about it because I want Nerdfighteria to be an active and effective force against Worldsuck .   And I don't want it to be just another community whose goal is to become big and powerful .   But it's really hard, both personally and communally, to resist that urge toward power .  And Hank, that's why we're gonna try to make things even more transparent around here so that Nerdfighteria can hold us accountable and so that we can work together to decrease Worldsuck effectively . Which brings me, at long last, to Shailene Woodley and her hair . So Hank, Shailene is gonna play Hazel in The Fault in Our Stars movie, and Shailene is that rare soul who despite becoming successful stays weird and empathetic and just wonderful .  Like, she's often called a hippie by the media, but it's mostly because she cares about ethical eating and trying to minimize her footprint, which by the way, so does Hazel Grace Lancaster . Anyway, last week Shailene had a great idea .  She has to cut her hair to play Hazel Grace of course, and she's going to donate her hair to Children with Hair Loss, an organization that provides free wigs to kids who've lost their hair because of illnesses or burns .   And I'm gonna donate some money to that organization so they can make the wigs, because I do not have enough hair, although some wives would argue that I maybe have too much on my face .   But anyway, I thought it would be cool if other people wanted to join Shailene in doing this .  You need at least eight inches of hair, more info in the doobly-doo . So to summarize, Hank, I hope we can be more aware of the Unfair Monopoly trap and try not to fall into it .  Let's try to remember that the world isn't just, because only then will we have the power to change it .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday . I wanted to talk today about why healthcare costs in the United States are so phenomenally, fascinatingly expensive, but first I have to blow your mind . Alright, so you've probably heard that the reason people enjoy  " free "  healthcare in Australia and the UK and Canada, etc . , etc . , is that they pay higher taxes .  That money then goes into a big pot and is used to pay for peoples' healthcare .   But IN FACT, in the United States, we spend more tax money per capita on healthcare than Germany, Australia, the United Kingdom, or Canada .  That's right Hank, you pay more in taxes for healthcare than you would if you were British, and in exchange for those taxes, you get .  .  .  no healthcare . In fact, only about 28% of Americans get their health insurance through government funded programs -- mostly poor people, old people, and Congresspeople .   But as you can see in this graph, our private healthcare spending -- most of Americans are privately insured through their employers -- is WAY higher than anywhere else in the world . In total, the US currently spends about 18% of its gross domestic product on healthcare costs; Australia by comparison ?  -- 9% . Why is this ?  Well, because everything costs more, which seems obvious, but apparently it isn't, because every article you read is like,  " Oh, it's because of malpractice insurance !  "  Or,  " It's because we're obese, "  or,  " We go to the doctor too much, "  or,  " People are prescribed too many medications .  "  Well, not really .  It's because everything costs more . A hip replacement in Belgium costs $13,000; in the US, it's often over $100,000 .  Colonoscopies average over eleven hundred bucks a piece in the US; in Switzerland, they're $655 .   And on average, a month of the drug Lipitor will cost you $124 if you live in the United States; if you live in New Zealand, seven dollars . Now we are also, not to brag, richer than all of these countries, so it makes sense that we should spend a little more on healthcare .   But we don't spend a little more -- we spend a ton more .   And vitally, we don't get anything for that money, which means we are essentially paying people to dig holes and then fill those holes back up .  Like we don't live longer -- in fact, we're thirty-third in life expectancy -- and in everything from asthma to cancer, according to one recent, non-partisan study, American health-out-care-comes   are  " not notably superior .  " So why are we spending all of this money for nothing ?  Well, first let's discuss some of the problems that are not actually problems .  For instance, the problem is NOT so-called over-utilization, the idea that Americans go to the doctor more and get more tests and spend more time in hospitals .  We know this because Americans actually go to the doctor less than Europeans and spend much less time in hospitals, although to be fair, you can stay in a Dutch hospital for seven nights for what it costs to stay in an American one for one night, and no wonder we're hesitant . Also, it is not because we are sicker than other people .  Everybody likes to blame obesity on our rising healthcare costs, but yeah, no .  That argument is just not supported by data .  For one thing, disease prevalence does not affect healthcare costs that much .   And for another thing, while we do have more obesity in the United States, which sometimes leads to health problems, we have fewer smokers and less alcohol consumption -- REALLY ?  Apparently yes .  So that saves us a little money, and if you compare us to like the British or the French, in the end it's probably a wash . Hank, the truth, as usual, is complex .  Like there are obvious inefficiencies in our healthcare system .  For instance, not everyone has insurance .  If you don't have insurance, you still get healthcare but you are responsible for paying for that healthcare which often you can't do, so you end up going bankrupt .  That sucks for you, obviously, because you're bankrupt, but it also sucks for the rest of us because we have to pay not only for your care, but also for all the money the hospital spent trying to get you to pay for your care .  Also, the only options available to uninsured people are usually the most expensive options, like emergency rooms, which is just bananas .  But those inefficiencies are hard to measure .  Fortunately, there are things that we can measure .  So like I said before, because the US is one of the richest countries in the world, you would expect us to pay a little more for healthcare than most people .  The question is when do we pay more than you would expect us to pay, and that turns out to be pretty interesting . Let's start with malpractice and so-called  " defensive medicine .  "  The idea here is that doctors are scared of huge malpractice suits, so they order a lot of unnecessary tests in order to like, cover their butts .  That does contribute to our healthcare costs, like there are more MRIs and CT scans in the US than anywhere else .  However, there are a bunch of states, like Texas, that have passed tort reform to limit malpractice suits, and in those states healthcare costs have dropped by an average of a whopping  . 1% .  The biggest estimates for the total cost of defensive medicine put it around $55 billion, which is a lot of money, but it's only 2% of our total healthcare costs . Another smallish factor, doctors - and, to a lesser extent, nurses -- are paid more in the United States than they are in other countries .   And by my possibly-faulty math, we end up spending about $75 billion more than you would expect us to there .  Then we have the cost of insurance and administrative costs like paperwork and marketing and negotiating prices, all that stuff -- that's about $90 billion more than you would expect us to spend .  We spend about $100 billion more than you would expect on drugs, not so much because we take more of them but because the ones that we take cost more per pill . Okay, and now for the big one .  I'm going to lump in-patient and out-patient care together because in the US we do a lot of things as out-patient procedures -- like gallbladder surgeries -- that are often in-patient procedures in other hospitals .  So we're just going to make a big ball .  That big ball is $500 billion more than what you would expect given the size of our economy .  Per year .  Why ?  Well, because in the United States, we do not negotiate as aggressively as other countries do, with healthcare providers and drug manufacturers and medical device-makers . So like in the UK, the government goes out to all the people who make artificial hips and says,  " One of you is going to get to make a crap-ton of fake hips for everybody who is covered by the NHS here in the United Kingdom .   But you better make sure your fake hips are safe, and you better make sure that they're cheap, because otherwise we're going to give our business to a different company .  "   And then all the fake hip companies are motivated to offer really low prices because it's a huge contract .  Like think if your company got to put hips inside of everyone in England and Scotland and Wales and Northern Ireland -- I guess not everyone, just the people who need hips .  But in the US we don't have any of that centralized negotiation so we don't have as much leverage .  The only big exception is Medicare, the government-funded healthcare for old people which, not coincidentally, always gets the lowest prices . So basically, Hank, in the United States, providers charge whatever they think they can get away with, and they can get away with a lot because it's really difficult to put a price on like, not dying .  This is a phenomenon called  " inelastic demand " : like if you tell me that this drug that will save my life costs $7 a month, I will pay you $7 a month for it; if you tell me that it costs $124 a month, I will find a way to find $124 a month to pay for it .  You can't negotiate effectively on your own behalf for healthcare services because you NEED them, and not like you need a new MacBook Air or the new season of Sherlock, but actual, physical need -- I guess it is like the new season of Sherlock .  .  . So basically Hank, until and unless we can negotiate as effectively with the people providing healthcare as Australians and British people do, US healthcare costs will continue to rise faster than anywhere else in the world, and we won't get better healthcare outcomes . Hank, I know this video is long -- although it could have been much longer -- but I am so tired of people offering up simple explanations for what's wrong with our healthcare system .  They say,  " Oh, it's malpractice, "  or,  " It's doctors who must also be business people, "  or,  " It's insurance companies, "  or,  " It's insane rules for who can get insurance .  "   " It's drug companies, "   " It's government bureaucracy, "   " It's an inability to negotiate prices "  -- Yes, yes, yes, yes, and yes .  It is all of those things and more !  It is not a simple problem, there will not be a simple solution, but it is probably the biggest single drag on the American economy, and it's vital that we grapple with it meaningfully instead of just treating healthcare costs as political theater . So I hope I've at least introduced the complexity of the problem .  I put some thoroughly non-partisan links in the doobly-doo for further reading . Hank, welcome back to the United States !  As you can see, everything is peachy here .  I'll see you on Friday . Friendly reminder: educational videos are allowed to be more than four minutes long; all the people who are commenting about how punished I am did not watch to the end of the video !  I feel dizzy .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . I want to return to the subject of America's fascinatingly inefficient healthcare system, and I want to make a capitalist argument for reform, but first- a brief defense of capitalism . Okay, so think of the economy as a pizza .  The richest people get the largest portion of that pizza, and the poorest people get very little of it .  In fact, in the U . S, the poorest forty percent of Americans get less than point three percent of the pizza .  That's problematic, don't get me wrong, but the cool thing about capitalism is that thanks to innovation and competition, over time the overall size of the pizza increases .  So even if your percentage slice of the pie doesn't increase, you get more pizza .  This is ultimately why you probably live in a place with a refrigerator and your great-grandparents probably didn't . Essentially Hank, over time, free markets create free pizza .  Well, it's not free actually, because innovation usually means, like, increased use of non-renewable resources and new damage to the ecosystem, but whatever- FREE PIZZA .  But, and this is very important, the only way to get that free pizza is to make the world safe for innovation and competition .  Like, you need innovators to create refrigerators and then you need competition to drive the prices down .  Besides creating free pizza, this also creates lots of jobs, so yay .  Unfortunately, our healthcare system sucks at facilitating this . Okay, so in the United States, most people get their insurance through their employers .  Like, the vast majority of companies with more than 50 employees offer health insurance plans .  That's how my family and I get our health insurance through my wife's job .   But if you or your spouse don't work for a big company, it can be difficult to get insurance at all, because insurers can deny people access to coverage based on past health problems called pre-existing conditions .   And this can lead to all kinds of irrationalities because people don't want to risk this pre-existing condition stuff so they either stay at their job with a big company or they remain full-time students because those ways you are guaranteed to have health insurance . Example: In 2008, Henry Reich graduated from college, which meant he no longer had insurance, so he figured he should enroll in graduate school in physics so he could keep his insurance even though what he really wanted to do was do YouTube-ey stuff .  Fortunately for Henry, at that very moment the Affordable Care Act came along saying that he was entitled to be on his parents' insurance until he was 26 .   And that allowed him to go work for a tiny online video company, which in turn lead to the creation of MinutePhysics and MinuteEarth, two of the most innovative, educational projects on the internet- telling us everything from what a Higgs Boson is to why locust plagues happen .  Those projects have been watched hundreds of millions of times, and they make us smarter, but they also increase the size of the pizza .   But crazily, if it hadn't been for the weird rule in the Affordable Care Act that you get to keep your parents' insurance until you're 26, none of it would have happened . Let me give you another example: you .   And by you I mean my brother, Hank Green, I don't mean the other people watching this video, although hi !  Hank, you have ulcerative colitis, a chronic and very serious illness that's also extremely expensive to treat, so no insurance company will ever choose to insure you .  Now thanks to the state of Montana, you currently have a so-called catastrophic coverage plan, which caps your out-of-pocket health expenses at $10,000 per year .  That's not ideal, but before Montana passed that law, you couldn't get any health insurance at all, meaning that you were constantly at risk of, like, a million dollar bankrupting illness or injury . So Hank, back before this government subsidized health care plan came along, you had to allocate every dollar you made to the I-don't-want-to-go-bankrupt-if-I-fall-off-a-ladder fund .   But then, when the state of Montana came along and forced insurance companies to at least offer catastrophic coverage to people like you, you could suddenly use your resources more efficiently .  Basically, you could take all that gosh-I-don't-want-to-fall-off-a-ladder money and start spending it on other stuff like, I don't know, DFTBA Records, which now employs lots of people .  Or you could spend money to start VidCon, which now also employs lots of people .  Then there's the Lizzie Bennet Diaries, and Crash Course and SciShow and Sexplanations and The Brain Scoop and the Foundation to Decrease Worldsuck and Subbable and the juggernaut known as 2D Glasses . Hank, altogether these investments that you've made in innovation are responsible for dozens of jobs and for a significant growing of the overall size of the pizza .   And none of that could have ever happened without publicly subsidized health insurance .  Now of course, Hank could have gone on to work for a big company after college and he could have gotten health insurance, but then there would be no nerdfighteria, no VidCon, no DFTBA Records, et cetera .  Career decisions should be about finding the place where your talents meet the world's needs, not about finding the place where you can get health insurance . Okay, so this all took a hilarious turn recently when Henry turned 26 and aged out of his parents' health care coverage .  He then had to apply for his own insurance and sure enough, he was turned down because of the pre-existing conditions of tinnitus and tendinitis .  That's right, he has a little bit of a ringing in his ear occasionally and his knee gets sore because he runs a lot, because he's so fracking healthy .  Now, of course, on January 1st, 2014, Henry will be eligible for coverage as everyone else will be through the Affordable Care Act .   But if that didn't exist, he would be forced to choose between MinutePhysics and his health .  That is a ridiculous choice .   And that ridiculous choice is lived by tens of millions of Americans, has inhibited innovation, prevented job creation, and it has made the pizza smaller than it ought to be . Hank, there are only a few things that really piss me off in this world, and one of them is small pizzas . So that's my capitalist fiscally conservative case for healthcare reform .  For too long, we have privileged employees over entrepreneurs when we need entrepreneurs like Henry and Hank to maximize economic growth .  Hank, thank you for being the engine that drives job growth in the American economy and for giving lots of people jobs, including me .  I will see you on Friday .  Informational videos are allowed to be more than four minutes long .  Has that been opened the whole time ?  Dang it !  Sorry .  You saw the secret innards of the set, which is really just my desk .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .   So for the last few months, I have been working out a few times a week with a trainer named Sean and he has changed my life considerably .   Like I can now run six miles in under an hour, although all things being equal, I would still prefer not to .   Also, not to brag, I can now bench-press 100 pounds fifteen times in a row .   Which I believe, according to the law of transitive benching, means that I can bench-press 1500 pounds one time in a row . Anyway I bring this up to explain why I've been listening to the Drake song  " Started from the Bottom   "  a lot recently .   It is an excellent song to run to .   Hank I'm not sure you're familiar with this song, fortunately 90 percent of its lyrics are in its title .   It's basically about how Drake started from the bottom and then he and his crew are now at the top .   Meanwhile, I have also been re-reading the autobiography of Benjamin Franklin .   Benjamin Franklin was a Founding Father of the United States and he invented the lightning rod and bifocals and started universities and fire departments and libraries .   He was a very interesting guy .    And then recently it occurred to me, not to sound like a Comp .  Lit .  professor or anything, that Benjamin Franklin's autobiography and Drake's song  " Started from the Bottom   "  are really interesting and problematic to consider together . Stay with me, first there are the superficial connections- they're both successful people's narratives about success .   Like Benjamin Franklin negotiated important treaties with the French, Drake says that there really ain't much poppin' off in the music industry without him . Also both narratives are just a smidge repetitive, like the titular chorus of the Drake song appears like 35 times in three minuets .    And Benjamin Franklin, while he was a very talented guy and everything, overuses a lot of words .   Most notably  " ingenious " , I mean if you can read, Benjamin Franklin thinks you're ingenious .  But there are also much deeper connections .   So the most famous moment of Benjamin Franklin's autobiography is when he is kicked out of his apprenticeship in his hometown and then he lights out for the fair shores of Philadelphia, arriving with only one copper shilling and a dream .   He spends the copper shilling on three loaves of bread, two of which he gives to people who are less fortunate than he, and then fortified only by that single loaf of bread he builds a massive printing empire and becomes the Founding Father of America . Benjamin Franklin's story is the American dream, of a rugged individual making his, or her, but usually his way to the top via nothing but hard work and ingenious-itosity .   Yeah, except that Benjamin Franklin didn't start from the bottom .   He was from a family of wealthy printers .   Aside from that famous copper shilling, he also took to Philadelphia a letter of recommendation from the governor of the colony .    And he was the right class and the right gender and the right race to become Benjamin Franklin .   Essentially the Benjamin Franklin story is  " Started in the upper-middle then I really got very near the top, but George Washington's still a little bit above me .   I was close "  .  Similarly, Drake did not actually start from the bottom .   For one thing he is Canadian, which is arguably the best place to be born in the world today .   Also his mom is a teacher and furthermore, from a very early age, Drake had a lucrative gig as a cast member on the television program Degrassi - Degrassi ? Sarah- Degrassi . Degrassi .   Sarah's here, by the way . In short Hank, the success narratives we hear are almost always privilege narratives, and they almost never acknowledge that privilege .   Now Hank, none of this is to denigrate the accomplishments of Drake or Benjamin Franklin .   No other Degrassi alumni, for instance, are on the road making half a million for a show .    And no other person in the 18th century invented bifocals despite many people having Benjamin Franklin's privileges or even more privileges .  But the underlying idea of the self-made individual who heroically, on their own builds a successful career in music or business or writing or whatever is just deeply flawed and as long as we believe it, we will collaborate too little and judge others too often .   In the end Hank, while I'm probably a bigger fan of Benjamin Franklin I appreciate Drake's retelling of his own story more because while he says  " started from the bottom "    he also says  " now my whole crew is here "  . Drake acknowledges, in a way Ben Franklin never does, that his success sprang from and was fueled by a  " we "  .    And that's always the truth Hank .   I didn't develop this astonishing athletic body on my own .   Drake didn't make his success on his own .   Even Ben Franklin relied on English opticians to help invent the bifocal .  And speaking of how much I enjoy collaboration, Hank I'll see you on Friday .                                                                                   
Good Morning Hank it's Tuesday and today I'm going to apply for health insurance twice .  First using the exchanges created by the Affordable Care Act and second, using the private insurance options that existed before the Affordable Care Act, which by the way still exist .  Alright, let's get right to it .  Okay so first we're gonna go through the new Healthcare Exchanges .  It is currently 1:11pm - I am going to Google  " I need to sign up for ObamaCare .  "  Bam - took me right there . Okay, my first name is John - create account - dunduhduhduuuuuuh !  Its saying please wait .  Its still saying please wait .  I'm just going to go to Tumblr for a while .  Sign up unsuccessful .  Dang it . Alright, I'm going to try again .  First name is John; my last name is Green; I live in Indiana; I do have an email address - thank you for asking .  Alright I'm back to the 'Please Wait' screen .  Big money, no whammys .  Sign up unsuccessful, well this is not going well at all . I'm going to keep trying because that is my commitment .  My name is John; my last name is Green; I live in Indiana; I do have an email address .  It's now 1:16pm - I'm five minutes into my  " Applying for ObamaCare "  experience .  So far, I'm going to say a little underwhelming .  Do I know my first name ?  I mean at this point I almost have it memorized .  Okay .  My account could not be created this time because the system is unavailable .  I'm a little bit frustrated - maybe I'll call for some room service ? On Phone: No, no, no I don't like mayonnaise .  No mayo .  Yeah !  Urm, yeah do you have like Diet Pepsi ?  Perfect .    It worked, it workedOn Phone: Bye . Ahahahahah .  I have an account .  I gotta go to my email address to sign up for it though .  Now it says 'Get Insurance' John, what would you like to do ?  Apply for new coverage ?  Yes . Okay, my date of birth ?  Yes, I know that .  Oh, and then I have to tell you about the next person, that's my wife .  The third person is my kid, his name is Henry .  He's very cute .  Person four of four, that would be my new baby .  Suddenly it's pretty easy - it's all questions I know how to answer . Alright now I'm going to sign and submit .  No one applying for health coverage on this application is currently incarcerated .  Agree - unless Henry has done something in the last couple of minutes . Okay Hank, quick update .  It is now 2pm, so I am 49 minutes into my Affordable Care Act application .  I have now uploaded a photograph of my Drivers License so they can verify my identity so then I can go in and decide which kind of insurance I want . I will now attempt to get to the same place with the private insurance that existed before the Affordable Care Act .  I have that application right here, let's get started .  My name - it just so happens that I know that .  I am married .  Here's my social security number . Okay, Hank I just got to the really scary part of this application where it says  " Incorrect or incomplete information on this application may result in avoidance of coverage or claim denial .  "  So I need to be really, I guess, honest about all the questions . Has the applicant, while operating a motor vehicle, been involved in an accident or received a moving violation ?  If yes, provide details in medical history details .  Because of course, that time I rolled through a stop sign is part of my medical history .  Rolled through stop sign .  Got ticket .  Felt shame .  Is any family member pregnant or an expectant mother or father ?  I hope not ! In the last five years has any applicant been diagnosed as having elevated cholesterol, diabetes or sugar in the blood, stroke, mental, emotional or behavioral disorder ?  Oh, I was on a good roll until you go to mental, emotional or behavioral disorder . In the last five years, has any applicant had any indications, signs or symptoms of any disease, disorder, injury or adverse finding ?  I mean yes . Is any applicant currently or in the last five years, used alcoholic beverages in excess of 14 drinks per week .  Yes, during the week of the Indianapolis 500 .  Yes .  Definitely . This application is like fully 25 pages long and the language in it makes my head hurt .  Argh, this is taking forever, I have to .  .  Hank, every three seconds I have to look up the phone number of a different doctor .  .  .  This sucks . In the last ten years has any applicant been hospital confined ?  Yes, orbital cellulitis, plus my wife was hospital confined when she had the babies .  Had surgery ?  Yes .  I had my gallbladder out .  Or discussed surgery ?  Mentioned it in conversation ? So basically, you have to write down every time you or someone in your family has been to the doctor in the last 10 years .  Every time you got a medical test and if the results were not normal what the results were, so that's what I've been doing for the last 2 hours .  Okay Hank, it is now 4:13pm .  I think that I have finished my medical history details and there's all this really complicated stuff I don't understand about information practices .   But anyway, I'm not going to read it, I'm just going to consider it finished at 2 hours and 16 minutes . So to summarize Hank, in neither case did I actually get insurance .  However, even with all the server errors, it was more than twice as fast to apply under the Affordable Care Act Private Exchanges than it was to apply in the old way .   And it's also much less confusing and intrusive .  Like in the old way I had to list every single time I went to the doctor and in the new way, they didn't ask me anything except whether I smoked . Its not really fair to compare the experience of buying health insurance on these new exchanges to the experience of buying a surprisingly affordable poster at DFTBA . com .  The only real analogue was what it was like to buy insurance before and as far as I can tell, it has gotten dramatically better--even though the government could stand to buy some new servers .  So Hank I hope you enjoyed my afternoon spent in the world of health insurance .  I know I didn't .  I'll see you on Friday .  Actually, I might see you before Friday because I might do like a special bonus video .  I don't know .  This whole Government Shutdown has gotten everything all furschrubitdybrubt here at Vlogbrothers .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  So a YouTube employee once told me that almost all so-called  " Low Engagement Viewers "  decide whether to watch a video in the first 12 seconds and I don't want any low engagement viewers today, hence the 12 seconds of silence .  Also, how long is 12 seconds of silence on YouTube ?  An eternity ! By the way Hank, I'm in Amsterdam .  That is not a green screen or anything - it only looks impossibly beautiful . Right, but anyway, the easiest and most obvious metric for success for a YouTube video is how many views it gets and lately ours have been getting a lot of views .  Like in the past month, our new videos have averaged over 600,000 views .  Meanwhile, a lot of other things are also increasing the size of Nerdfighteria . By the way, in a stunning turn of events, it is raining in Amsterdam, so I think I'm going to go inside .  Rain's relationship with Amsterdam is like mine - it visited once and its was like  " This is great !  "  and then it kept coming back .  This is better .  So Nerdfighteria is growing in lots of ways .  Like my books are reaching a much larger audience than I ever imagined - I mean Hank, I don't regularly get emails in like all capital letters from 80 year old grandmothers that are like  " My granddaughter told me to read your book and I did and I liked it and now my entire retirement home's book club is reading it .  PS What happens to Anna's mom ?  "  .   And that's awesome because A .  we need more old people in Nerdfighteria and B .  its good to know that 80 year olds and teenagers ask the same questions . Also, CrashCourse and SciShow and Mental Floss all have large and growing audiences and the very way that we find YouTube videos is changing .  I mean having a feed instead of a subscription box means that we see more videos from channels we aren't subscribed to and fewer from the ones we are subscribed to .  So here's my fear Hank .  As communities grow - especially if they grow without deepening - they paradoxically often become less important .  Like a lot of people watch the television program  " Two  And A Half Men "  but that show's community is far less interesting and important than a much less popular show like  " Supernatural "  .  Now of course bigger doesn't always mean less important - like the Harry Potter books for instance reached a fairly large audience but still that core community of Potter fans, who like listen to wizard rock and started the Harry Potter Alliance, made big and lasting changes in the world and they're still making them .  In short Hank, if we're going to keep growing, I want to make sure that we grow like that .  So Hank, we realized several years ago that fame isn't very fulfilling but what is tremendously fulfilling is the opportunity to make stuff you like with people you like .  So I want to make that re-commitment to Nerdfighteria that this is truly a collaboration among all of us .  I think we should continue to make videos that explain stuff like healthcare costs and sovereign debt and the war in Syria, and I also think we should make videos about stuff we care about like the TFiOS movie, which I care about very much .   But Hank I also want to be making good and funny and nerdy stuff with Nerdfighteria so let's start today . My last video was over 4 minutes long .  Nerdfighters in Our Pants, which sounds dirty but isn't, decided that it did not meet the definition of an educational video, ergo I am punished .  By the way for those of you who are new: Our Pants is the forum, our videos aren't allowed to be more than 4 minutes long unless they're educational, Hank is my brother, I like pizza, Hank likes corn dogs and Nerdfighters are nerds who fight to make the world suck less .  Also Hank, according to the Nerdfighters in Our Pants, we both already owe punishments so we're both punished and I'm doubly punished .  So Nerdfighters, we need lots of punishment suggestions in comments . Hank, thanks for the update video which might be even better than 12 seconds of silence at getting non-nerdfighters to stop watching .  I'm very excited for Emma Approved, by the way, and I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  It's Question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real nerdfighters, about the Fault in Out Stars movie .  Also, today's video will be a response to your video from Friday but it's gonna take me a minute, so let's get right to it . When you were writing the Fault in Our Stars did'ya ever think it would become a movie ?  No, I mean when was the last time you saw a movie in which the leading lady has nasal cannula in every scene of the film - it does not happen .  Hollywood doesn't usually make, like, love stories about disabled teenagers, so no, I didn't think it would happen, but I'm delighted . Did you really cry a lot while you were on the movie set ?  Yes . Why ?  Well no spoilers, but, but it turns out that there's some sad parts . John, are you gonna be in the movie ?  Yes, unless my scene gets cut .  I have a really important role but I'm not allowed to tell you what it is yet . Was that your first time ever acting ?  I'm not sure I would call what I did acting . Now that you've acted in a movie would you ever consider a career in movies or television ?  -Is a question that people will not be asking me after they see the movie . Hey, do you have an official release date that I can put on my calendar and scream about ?  Yes, the movie comes out on June 6th, at least in the US, I don't know about international yet .  You don't have to scream, but you should put it on your calendar because these days the success of a movie is judged largely on how many people see it in like the first 24 hours . Why is the premier date so far away ?  Well it's not that far away, I mean they just finished shooting it five days ago, and now they have to edit it, which is when it really becomes a movie .   And that takes a long time, it's not like editing a Vlogbrothers video .   But yeah, they're waiting til June because it's typical summer blockbuster fare, you know, it's like Iron Man 4, but without Robert Downey Jr . , or iron men . How's it feel to be a big time movie producer, making the big bucks ?  Well for the record I am not a movie producer, big time or otherwise .  The Fault in Our Stars movie is not my movie .  Like I'm not a director or producer or a casting director or a music supervisor and God knows I am not an actor . Will Troye Sivan's song about TFIOS be on the soundtrack ?  Yeah, that's another example of a decision I will not be making, although I do love that song . Is the movie the exact same as the book ?  No, the movie is made out of, like pictures and sound; whereas, the book is made entirely of scratches on a page .  So I don't think they can be the same, and I also don't think they should be because in a movie you're trying to tell a visual story instead of a textual story .  That said, I think the movie script was a very faithful adaptation, one of the most faithful I've ever read .  Then again, when I had the opportunity to adapt my own novel, Paper Towns, into a screenplay, I had the main character pursue an entirely different girl than he does in the book, so I might not be the best mayor of faithful adaptation town . Should I read the book before seeing the movie, or the other way around ?  Oh you should definitely read it first -said the totally unbiased observer . Be honest, how were the kissing scenes ?  A+++, very good, would watch again . Since it was filmed in Pittsburgh, how did the movie recreate things that are specific to Indianapolis, like Funky Bones ?  Everything was recreated by amazing set designers so, like Funky Bones was recreated with help from the artist and also from my wife, who helped curate the project .   And then Sarah flew out to Pittsburgh for Funky Bones day to make sure that everything looked right, and it really did, like even from 6 inches away I could not tell that I wasn't looking at the real Funky Bones, sorry for the double negative . By the way, did I tell you that Sarah's leaving her job at the Indianapolis Museum of Art in order to curate and host a show with PBS Digital called the Art Assignment, link in the doobly-doo .  Ah, I'm sorry, I should've mentioned that weeks ago, terrible husbanding . What do you think about people saying Shailene is too attractive to play Hazel ?  Well I'm offended on Hazel's behalf !  When in the book does it ever say she's not attractive ?  She's very attractive ! Did you have any preconceived ideas about movies that got blown out of the water ?  Yeah, on some level, I always thought that movies were really about, like, actors and directors and producers, maybe a cinematographer .  I never really understood how all those people who are listed at the end of the credits are absolutely vital to the creation of a movie .  That massive collaboration involving hundreds of people is what makes movies possible .  And it's also why I would argue that curiosity is not the most important human trait, the urge to collaborate is .  Hank, I wanna argue that lots of animals are really curious but only we have the ability to cooperate to make, like, online communities and space telescopes and imaginariums and movies .  So the great thrill of this whole experience for me was seeing humanity do what I think it's best at, which ultimately is not competing, but cooperating .  Although, of course, we do compete a lot .  So yeah, Hank, I disagree with you, I think it's cooperation, not curiosity .  I might be wrong, you're usually right, you're probably right, but I sti-I-I-I thi-I think my-I think what I think ! I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank .   It's Tuesday . So I really liked your video about perspective and in the beginning you were like,  " Everybody write in the comment box, no math allowed, no Google searches, how long ago you think it was a million seconds ago .  "    And my immediate thought was,  " That's easy .   Twelve years .  "   Of course it turns out that it was in fact 12 days .   I'm not very good at measuring time, as long-time Nerdfighters will no doubt remember .   I once acted as if a minute had 100 seconds and it's very embarrassing ANYWAY . All that made me think about perspective and where I was a million imagined seconds ago .   So here's a story . I was 24 and my long-time girlfriend had just broken up with me and I was living in Chicago in what had been our apartment with what had been our cat .    And I was pretty depressed .   I thought the depression was a result of having been dumped but in retrospect, getting dumped was probably, at least partly, a result of the depression . You know, with its incumbent-like obsessive thinking patterns and self focus and inability to, like, do anything .  Also I was trying to write a novel but I hadn't written a sentence I liked in more than a year and while I did have like a great job at Booklist Magazine and wonderful colleagues and friends and a great family, I was really losing it . Hank to give you some context, a lot of days the only thing I would eat or drink would be one 2-Liter bottle of Sprite, which is a bad nutrition strategy on many levels, including the fact that you lose a lot of weight and despite the lemon and lime flavoring, you will eventually get scurvy .  But before I got to the scurvy point, I called my parents one night and we all agreed that I needed to come home so I woke up the next morning and I quit my job .  Actually I tried to quit my job but the publisher of Booklist, Bill Ott, was like,  " Why don't you just take a leave of absence for a couple weeks and see if you can get well enough to come back to work .  "  Which in retrospect is one of the nicest things anyone ever did for me .  Also he gave me a note which I still have to this day .      John .  I stopped by to say good-bye .  I hope all goes well and you're back here in two weeks with an appetite that would put a longshoreman to shame .  Now more than ever, WATCH HARVEY .   -Bill    Bill had been bugging me for like three years to watch this old black and white movie Harvey .   So my dad drove up to Chicago and then we drove back to Orlando together .   I got into daily therapy, I started taking a much better medication for me, and I watched Harvey . Hank as you know I am very suspicious of epiphanies, because I think people have life-changing revelations all the time that turn out not to actually change their lives .   That said, all I know is that I woke up the morning after watching Harvey feeling  little bit better .    And in all the years since, I have never felt quite as hopeless as I did before I watched Harvey . The movie's about this guy, Elwood P .  Dowd, whose best friend is a 6-foot tall, invisible, white rabbit, and there is one line in the movie that I think really did change my life .   Elwood says,  " My mother used to tell me that, 'In this world, Elwood, you must be oh so smart or oh so pleasant .  Well for years I was smart .  I recommend pleasant . ' " Two weeks later I went back to Booklist and within six months I handed Eileen Cooper, my mentor, 40 single-spaced pages of the story that eventually became Looking for Alaska .   Now Hank I don't want to pretend that everything was rosy .   I still missed my ex-girlfriend, I was still really screwed up, and those 40 single-spaced pages were pretty terrible .  But with a million seconds of perspective, or I guess 365 million seconds, I see a life that I am now very grateful to have beginning to happen .    But I didn't know that then, Hank .   All I knew was that I was a little less hopeless than I had been .   You can't know what an experience will mean to future you, until you are future you .   You need millions of seconds of perspective, which ultimately only time can buy .    But until then, there is always the gift of Elwood P .  Dowd . There's a great moment in the movie where the mailman says to Elwood,  " Beautiful day, isn't it ?  "  and Elwood replies,  " Every day is a beautiful day .  " Hank, I'll see you on Friday .  
Good Morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  So today I want to announce a new project, but first I have to begin by explaining that for the last couple of years, I have been the manager of a fictional soccer team called the Swindon Town Swoodilypoopers .  The Swoodilypoopers are led by two Time Lords, both named John Green, who are married to each other .   And everything was going swimmingly, but then I got obsessed with recreating the past, like Gatsby, and I got fired .   And now after careful consideration I have decided to retire from semi-professional FIFA playing, and I would like to take this opportunity to announce that I will no longer be supporting my family in part by playing video game soccer .  However, Hank, there's a couple things you need to understand about English football . First, if you're in the major leagues of English soccer, which is called the premier league, and you have a really bad season, and you finish in the bottom three, you don't get to play in the premier league next year .  You  are relegated to the league below that, which helpfully, is called the championship .  You know, because it doesn't feature any of the champions .  Anyway .  In every league, the top teams get promoted up each season, and the bottom tops get relegated down to the league below .   And if you get relegated from the fourth tier, which is helpfully called league 2, you are no longer in the football league .   And you team is not even in FIFA anymore . This makes English football fun and also terrifying, because there is a lot at stake every season for every team .   And no team experiences these crazy highs and lows like Wimbledon F . C . , which for most of its history was in the lower leagues but then had a run in top flight, and I mean they won the FA cup in 1988 .  Now the other big difference between English football and American sports is that there are no franchises, so like rich owners can't just move the Dodgers from Brooklyn to Los Angeles because they wanna .  Except occasionally when they can .  In 2002, Wimbledon F . C .  was moved to Milton Keynes leaving thousands of Wimbledon fans without a club .  I mean they had a hundred years of history and then nothing .  Their stadium was torn down, their FA cup was sent to Milton Keynes, although it was later returned . So these fans responded by starting a club from scratch: AFC Wimbledon .   And they started in 2002 in the ninth tier of English football .   But then they went on this amazing run and then just nine years later in 2011, their captain Danny Kedwell found himself with one penalty kick to send Wimbledon to the football league .   They did it !  Ah, they did it !  So, AFC Wimbledon became a League 2 team, which means that you can play them in FIFA .  Last year, they almost got relegated, but then in the last game they won heroically !  Hank, AFC Wimbledon is a truly extraordinary football club, it's owned and run by it's fans, I mean there's no big money behind it .  Their chairman is a retired accountant .  They were the first club in England to have a Football Fans Against Homophobia banner at a game, basically they're the most awesome football team in the world and I want to help them stay in the football league .  So I'm going to play with them in FIFA 14 .   But I'm going to keep my vow not to be a semiprofessional FIFA player anymore; instead, all ad revenue from the videos will go to sponsor the actual, real AFC Wimbledon team .  We're going to have billboards in the stadium and ads in the program, all designed by nerdfighters .   And hopefully we're going to help this team that mirrors the values of nerdfighteria stay in the football league, so I can play with them in FIFA 15 and FIFA 16 and beyond, and maybe one day we can send them to the premier league !  Now that might be dreaming, but in 2002 when AFC Wimbledon was playing away games in front of 80 fans, it took some dreaming to imagine a world in which they would be a team that you could play in FIFA . So nerdfighters, if you'd like to help then please subscribe hankgames and watch the videos .  You can click on my face or this like in the doobly-doo, then let's start designing some ads together, there's more info below, where you can also find more footage on AFC Wimbledon's short but glorious history .  So Hank, I hope you like this new little project .  DFTBA, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday, November 12th, 2013 .  11-12-13 !  I learned an interesting fact today which is that sugar does not make children hyperactive . Now, I know what you're saying Hank:  " Yes it does .  " , because you remember being a kid and drinking a coke and then you and I would like run around in circles for hours and hours and hours .  Hold on, I have to button up this button .  What're we shooting here, some kind of swimsuit catalogue ?  But it doesn't Hank !  Sugar does not cause hyperactivity and there are more studies that attesting to this than there are studies proving that like most drugs humans take are safe . You know, on second thought, I think I need to come down a button . Henry: Whoooooa ! Oh hey, Henry ! Anyway, if you don't believe me, you should watch this Healthcare Triage video by Dr .  Aaron Carroll .  Dr .  Carroll helps write a blog called  " Incidental Economist "  that I stole from a lot in my video about healthcare costs .   And then it turns out that he lives in Indianapolis so we met and now we're producing a show that he's making about healthcare that adds like nuance and complexity to the conversation .  You know, all the things that traditional healthcare reporting is lacking . So if you don't understand like drug trials and insurance and why sugar highs are not actually caused by sugar, you should check out Health Care Triage .  You can click here or else there's also a link in the dooblydoo . Anyway, Dr .  Carroll also writes books which I have read two of in the last 24 hours because they are highly addictive and also because they have revealed that my entire life is a lie .  Like for instance, teething does not cause babies to have fevers .  Married people have more sex than single people of the same age, and also report that the sex that they have is better .  Using a sponge to clean your kitchen counter will likely make your kitchen counter dirtier than it was before because the average sponge contains more pathogens than like the average toilet seat . Lifting heavy boxes does not cause hernias, it can reveal hernias but it doesn't cause them .  Americans are not more likely to commit suicide around Christmas .  If you stop exercising, your muscles do not turn to fat .  Which is good news for my emerging guns .  Also, as you gain weight, the number of fats cells in your body does not increase, it's just that the size of them increases .  Sit-ups do not flatten your stomach .   And in great news for me, you are not more likely to get an infection from being on an airplane than from being in any other public space .  Like an office building or a bus or whatever .   But you are more likely to acquire a disease in any of those places than you are if you just like stay in your house by yourself so THANK YOU INTERNET . Also Hank, I learned that in rare instances vomiting hard and frequently can cause your eyes to pop out of your head .  So that's a good thing for a hypochondriac like myself to know .  Because it ensures that for the rest of my life, I will be puking with my eyes closed . Okay Henry, so Daddy can not eat worm pizza, your first suggestion for the gross thing I should eat, because it turns out that eating worms can be really bad for you; it can be kinda poisonous . Henry: Why ? Well because they have bacteria on them . Henry: Oh . Those little microbes, you know ? Henry: Yeah . Yeah, so we can't eat them . Henry: Okay, butSo what gross thing should I eat for my punishment ? Henry: Ah, you're gonna eat slobber carrots . Slobber carrots ?  What are those ? Henry: No, how about I drool on them ? You're gonna drool on slobber carrots ? Henry: Yeah .  And then I have to eat it ? Henry: Mhm . Henry, wasn't there something else that you wanted me to eat ? Henry: Really gross barbecue . Really gross barbecue ? Henry: Yeah . What does that mean ? Henry: I don't know but Dad . Are we going to make it gross together ? Henry: No .  I know how to make it gross with my drool ! So we're going to have slobber carrots with Henry drool and really gross barbecue with Henry drool . Henry: Yeah .  How about wooden shoes ? A wooden shoe ? Henry: Yeah .    No ? I mean, I don't think I can eat- I might be able to eat a little part of a wooden shoe . Henry: No, not some of the wooden shoe . No ? Henry: No . What should I eat then ? Henry: Lights ! Lights ?  ! Henry: Yeah . The visible sign of the invisible light ? Henry: Yeah . Hmmm .  .  I don't see how I can eat light itself because it's more of an idea than it is a thing . Henry: Cause if you eat it, it might break your mouth ? That's a good point .  That would hurt . Henry: Yeah . I just have to eat something that tastes gross . Henry: Um .  .  .  hats ! Hats ?  Alright, so we're gonna have slobber carrots with drool, really gross barbecue with the drool, and hats . Henry: Yeah ! Alright !  Thanks for the punishment, Hank .  I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . So due to tornadoes and broken airplanes and a chain of events too complicated for my exhausted brain to unravel, I have visited airports 9 times in the past 100 hours and I am very tired, and recently I unexpectedly found myself alone on a train in New York, the city where Brotherhood 2 . 0 began for me, and also the city where earlier this year we played a sold out show at Carnegie Hall, a dependent clause that I will get tired of saying when never . So anyway, there I was on the train blinking a lot, because my eyes desperately wanted to be closed, and I kept thinking about this Tumblr message I had received earlier, from a middle school student, who is currently attending the very same school that I attended in 7th grade, and who has one of the same teachers that I had . The message read in part: Ms   and I were talking, and she told me that you were a quiet, unique and miserable boy in middle school .  She also told me that you were bullied because of your awesomeness .  It didn't feel like awesomeness at the time of course, at the time, I was just miserable .  I mean Hank, you'll note that this teacher didn't say I was a good student, because I wasn't .  I wasn't merely a nerd, I was, or at least I felt like I was, a stupid nerd, which is like the worst kind of combo .  I take that back, pizza combos are the worst kind of combos, they are an insult to pizza .  But anyway, I almost never think about middle school now Hank, but the message really forced me to remember it, and also I was on a train, which inherently makes you kind of nostalgic .  So yeah, it's true that I was miserable, and that I was bullied .  In fact, I would often fantasize about hurting my bullies, or holding a gun to their heads and making them apologize, making them feel as scared and powerless as I felt .   But of course, that isn't the way forward . I realize now that the people who bullied me were not evil, they were kids, living with their own fear and pain, some of whom were dealing with trauma and abuse that I never even could of imagined .  Now that doesn't justify their behavior, but it does help me to understand that it really wasn't about me .  Their treatment of me was not a reflection of my value as a human being, and while it was very difficult for me to feel anything but miserable in those days, in retrospect I survived middle school because many people in fact were quite kind to me .  My parents, teachers, fellow nerds and even popular strangers who wouldn't stand for bullying . We decide collectively what kind of behavior is acceptable, and while The Lord of the Flies would have you believe that like adolescents always descend into mere cruelty, my experience of social orders has been much more complicated .  I've found that sometimes, often even, kids are capable of tremendous kindness and generosity, in fact that's been the hallmark of the nerdfighter community for more than seven years now, and I'm proud to be a nerdfighter in part because I wish so much that I could have been one in 7th grade .  There are always nerdfighters in Our Pants   who will listen to you if you will also listen back, and that is truly awesome . Right so anyway Hank, there was this moment onstage at Carnegie Hall, during the sound check, when John Darnielle of the Mountain Goats said into the mic:  " this is a message for sixteen year old me, not only did you survive, you are playing piano at Carnegie Hall "  .  Now I'm not going to tell you that like everyone who has a tough time as a kid ends up at Carnegie Hall, but the idea that those years have to be the best of your life is just ridiculous .  So to the young woman who wrote me, to myself, stranded far from home in an endless string of airports and train rides, I call up the great Robert Frost quote:  " The only way out is through "  .  You will get through .  I will get through .  Hank, I will see you, hopefully from Indianapolis, on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  So recently, nerdfighters have been asking me a lot about this don't forget to be awesome rug available at Urban Outfitters .  Like, did we license it ?  No .  Are they paying us ?  No .  Are we happy about it ?  Hmmm, not really .  Can we stop them ?  Yes .   But we're not going to .  Welcome to the wild world of trademarks . So first off Hank, Urban Outfitters is not alone in this co-opting of DFTBA .  Like there's this Kate Spade wallet that says don't forget to be awesome, as does this Hobby Lobby poster, and this Delia's t-shirt and this Aeropostale ad .  There's also this thing from Pier 1, stuff from Ron Jon surf shop .  And Hank, I know that we did not invent the phrase  " don't forget to be awesome .  "  So far as I know, it was invented by my friend Katie Else in 2007 .  However, we did popularize it .  The phrase had almost no Google hits or searches before nerdfighters began using it .  And Hank, because the phrase is so closely associated with us, it would be easy enough for us to go and hire a lawyer and trademark it and then we could send Urban Outfitters a cease and desist letter that would be like,  " Hi, either stop selling this doormat, or else publicly apologize for firing all of your Swedish employees when they attempted to unionize .  "   And I would kind of like to do that .  Partly because I don't want corporations co-opting Nerdfighteria, and partly because I am tired of getting emails asking me why, for instance, nerdfighter slogans are available at Hobby Lobby, a corporation that until, like, a month ago, refused to carry menorahs . Ah, but wait .  Here's is the problem with trademarks .  You cannot selectively enforce them .  So Hank, if we trademark DFTBA and Don't Forget To Be Awesome, we can't just tell Urban Outfitters and Hobby Lobby to stop making don't forget to be awesome stuff .  We have to tell everyone to stop using that phrase including like, nerdfighters who make awesome stuff and sell it on Etsy .  Like, I'd have to send cease and desist letters to people who make this amazing spoon, or these Hanklerfish greeting cards, or this DFTBA scarf .  God, that's awesome .   And I don't want to do that because I don't want that stuff to stop existing; in fact, in many cases I want to personally buy it .  But if we selectively enforce our trademark, Urban Outfitters and Hobby Lobby can be like  " no no no no no, this isn't really trademarked because look, they don't care when those people use the phrase .  "  So the only way to stop Urban Outfitters from selling DFTBA rugs is to also stop nerdfighters from selling DFTBA scarves .   And of course, that's bananas .  You couldn't explain this to any court, but the truth is, the phrase don't forget to be awesome doesn't belong to you and me, Hank, it belongs to Nerdfighteria . So Hank, we aren't going to trademark Don't Forget to be Awesome because it would mean claiming ownership over something that isn't really ours .   And that means that we're occasionally gonna have to deal with companies trying to co-op the sayings of the Nerdfighter community .  But Hank, I suspect the vast majority of nerdfighters will continue to make their own DFTBA stuff, or else buy from independent creators or buy it at dftba . com, where the royalties from nerdfighter merchandise are always shared with the nerdfighters who designed that stuff . Anyway, I wanna say one more thing about trademarks because it totally fascinates me .  If you and a lot of other people use your trademark, and it becomes weakened, it can eventually become what's called generalized .   And that is every brand's nightmare .  Like aspirin used to be trademarked by the company that distributed it, Bayer .   And that meant that only Bayer could call their acetylsalicylic acid Aspirin, the way that only Advil can call their ibuprofen Advil .   But because the aspirin trademark weakened over time and everyone just started calling that drug aspirin, now anyone can call their  " aspirin "  aspirin . The same thing happened to escalators and thermos, and it almost happened to some brands we know pretty well today, including Nintendo, which marketed the phrase  " game console " , so people wouldn't call all consoles Nintendos .   And to Google, which is why Google is always very careful to talk about searching even when the rest of us always talk about Googling . Hank, companies like Nintendo and Google are terrified of their trademarks becoming genericized because those trademarks define them .   But our community is lucky enough to be defined not by its name or by its mottos, but by the values those words represent .   And those values don't become less meaningful when they are shared, in fact, quite the contrary . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank it's Tuesday !  So amid all the misery of human life, it's easy to forget that there is much worth celebrating .   And as we begin a new year, I thought it would be nice to start it off with some good news .  Like for instance, divorce rates in the U . S .  have gone down every year since 2006 and are currently at their lowest level since 1970 . Then there's pregnancy, which from what I can gather is not fun .  The global rate of unintended pregnancy has declined dramatically since 1995, when 69 out of 1000 women had unintended pregnancies .  In 2008, it was 55 in 1000 women, which is good news because unintended pregnancies can have all kinds of health consequences for infants and for mothers, including increased infant mortality . Which reminds me that infant mortality is at an all-time low .  Worldwide it has dropped from 46 deaths per 1000 births to 35 just in the last 8 years .  Now of course you're worried that we're gonna have like 70 gajillion humans on earth, but in fact when infant mortality declines, families have fewer children . So decreasing infant mortality actually helps the overall population of humans stabilize .  Which is good because there are already too many of you driving up the price of the playoff tickets for my hometown Indianapolis Colts !  Going to the playoffs !  More good news !  But in more important good news, absolute poverty is down worldwide .  In fact, the United Nations estimates that poverty has decreased more in the last 50 years than it did in the previous 500 .  So much for the idea that colonization is good for the colonized . Adjusted for inflation, the number of people living on less than $1 . 25 a day has decreased from 43 percent in 1990 to 20 percent today .  Now, most of that is due to gains in China and India and Brazil .  However, Sub-Saharan Africa, long the world's poorest region, has been growing much faster than the world economy for the past decade . Now, inequality of wealth remains a huge problem around the world, but in the vast majority of countries, the poor are becoming less poor . Also, there is good news for those of us in the developed world !  In the United States cancer mortality rates have dropped by 20 percent in the last 25 years .  Why ?  Well, mostly because people quit smoking, or- or died from smoking .   But also we have better treatments and screenings for colon and breast cancers and a bunch of others . Then there's the Internet, which is reaching more people at higher speeds .  In the U . S . , Internet speeds were up 27 percent in 2013 over 2012 .  In fact, they were up all around the world !  From Guatemala, 75 percent increase, to Thailand, 32 percent .  So it's easier than ever for people to stay in touch and to collaborate . It's also easier than ever to visit one another !  While being herded like cattle into a steel cylinder and rocketed through the air remains one of the least pleasant experiences that a human being can have, airfares have dropped by almost 50 percent since 1985 .  You can also fly to more places than ever before and it's never been safer . Speaking of safe traveling, let's talk about cars .  For every 100 million miles driven in the U . S .  in 2011, there was 1 . 1 vehicular fatality .  In 1980, that number was 3 . 5 .  If you take 1980 as your baseline, safer cars and safer drivers saved 60,000 American lives in 2013 .  That's pretty great ! Also, things are getting better for non-human animals, well, at least the ones that we've domesticated .  Back in the 1990's, 17 million cats and dogs were euthanized per year in the U . S .  Now, that number is closer to 5 million . What else ?  Well, the fight against malaria is working, with mortality rates down nearly 50 percent in the last 10 years . More girls are attending school around the world, and the literacy rate for women in their 20's has risen from 79 percent in 1990 to 87 percent today .  And in almost every country on Earth you are more likely to live to be old than you were 10 years ago, you are less likely to be hungry, and you are likely better connected to those you love . Hank, 10 years ago we couldn't have had this conversation because there was no YouTube .  The Nerdfighter community couldn't have raised more than three-quarters of a million dollars for charity because there was no Nerdfighter community .  Now, of course this progress is tenuous, and much of it is unsustainable with current technology but it's also real and it's worth celebrating .  So here's to a new year, Hank .  May it really and truly be the best one yet .  Happy New Year ! *pops party poppers*Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank it's Tuesday .   It's currently colder in Indianapolis than it is on most of Mars .  Alright Hank, I gotta go .  I think Willie's stuck .  Free Willie !  Also I strained my groin so I'm literally sitting right now on a bag of frozen organic strawberries, so in general, my life is dominated by cold . Let's talk about warmth .  Los Angeles is warm .  That's where they're making The Fault in Our Stars movie .  This is the poster, in case you haven't seen it .  I love it .  I particularly love it because I can't remember the last time I saw a movie poster with a female romantic lead who has visible evidence of her physical disability but is still portrayed as being able to, like, love and be loved, so that's great .  Boy, I hope the movie's good .  I haven't seen it yet but it should be good . Alright what else makes me feel warm ?  Hmmm, Esther !  So Hank, Esther Earl was our friend and a nerdfighter who died of cancer when she was sixteen .  She inspired much of The Fault in Our Stars, but The Fault in Our Stars isn't about her .  This   is her actual story .  It's an amazing book, Esther was a beautiful writer .  I wrote the introduction and other people wrote other parts but Esther's parts are the best .  I'll read you the first sentence of my introduction .  By the way, there's a link in the dooblydoo, you can pre-order .  It comes out January 28th .   " My friendship with Esther Earl began as so many great love stories do: at a Harry Potter convention "  .  Also there's a big book launch event on February 1st in Boston with lots of nerdfighters and wizard rockers and Esther's family, there's a link in the dooblydoo, and it will be live streamed here at youtube . com/vlogbrothers . Hmm, what else is warm ?  American president Millard Fillmore was born this day in 1800 .  The last thing he ever ate was one spoonful of warm soup, so that's warm . Oh, and also, of course, England in winter is very warm .  What's that ?  Oh .  Well, at least it's dry .  Oh, I see, ok .  That sucks .   But it warms me on the inside to be able to tell you that the nerdfighter community is now officially a sponsor of AFC Wimbledon, a football club owned by its fans .  This Saturday, AFC Wimbledon play Torquay  , Torkwhee, Torkwhy, Torkay ?  I'm not very good at pronunciation .  Anyway, they play one of the other teams in League 2 and our messages will be on the side of the field and in the program .  So nerdfighters of Kingston and Wimbledon and Greater London, I hope that you will find a way to go to the game because I think that it would be great if there were nerdfighter support for the first official nerdfighter game .  There is a link to the location of Cherry Red Records Stadium in the dooblydoo .   And if you don't know what I'm talking about, you should watch this video . So there you have it Hank .  Esther's dream of being a published writer is really gonna come true and we sponsor a fourth tier English professional soccer team .  Life in Nerdfighteria continues to be weird and wonderful .  Well, sometimes .  Other times you have to sit on frozen organic strawberries, but at least they're organic .  No conventionally farmed strawberries for my groin ! Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  So worldwide, more than 6 million children died in 2013, which is horrible and unjust and unacceptable .   But it's also the lowest that number has been in quite a while, even though the world population has like steadily increased .  Like, Hank, when do you think the last time was that the world saw fewer than 6 . 3 million children die in a year: 1975, when the population of the world was 4 billion ?  1900 when it was 1 . 6 billion ?  No, in 1900 probably more than 8 million children died .  Earth has not seen a year with so few child deaths in hundreds of years--maybe a thousand years !   Intro to the Gates Foundation and Three MythsSo, Hank, I'm a big fan of the Gates Foundation, the organization set up by Bill and Melinda Gates that is--favorite mission statement ever-- devoted to the idea that all people deserve the chance to live a healthy and productive life .   And Bill and Melinda just released this fascinating letter highlighting three myths about development--and yes, I can call them Bill and Melinda .  Perhaps you're not familiar with the rule of twitter following   whereby you can call anyone you follow on twitter by their first name .  See also my acquaintances Barack, Beyonce, and Ellen .  Right, but anyway, Bill and Melinda's three myths: Myth 1: Poor Countries Will Forever Be PoorFirst, it is not true that poor countries will forever be poor .  Hank, I hear this all the time, especially about Africa, that despite their rich natural resources,  " those countries "  are just  " doomed "  to stay poor .  Well yeah, no .  I mean, for one thing, seven of the ten fastest growing economies of the last five years are in Africa .  To quote Bill,  " you should look skeptically at anyone who treats an entire continent as an undifferentiated mass of poverty and disease .  "  It is not fair that Bill Gates gets to be both a billionaire and a good writer .  Okay, it's time to put aside personal jealousy and return to statistics .  Adjusted for inflation, Botswana's income per person in 1960 was $383-it is now $12,000-$48,000 for a family of four .  Now that's an extreme example, but this is happening around the world--in the last fifty years, income per person in India has quadrupled; in Brazil, it has nearly quintupled .  Myth 2: Foreign Aid is a WasteThe second myth is that foreign aid is a waste .  Okay, quick quiz--guess what percentage of your countries budget is spent on foreign aid .  The answer is three percent--if you're Norwegian .  In the United States it's less than one percent .   And even with that small investment, we've seen tremendous results: twenty five years ago, there were 350,000 new cases of polio a year .  Today, thanks to the aid funded polio eradication initiative, there are fewer than 400 .  Malaria, and measles, and TB have all declined dramatically, and healthier kids go to school more, and then they work more when they grow up than they would if they were chronically ill or disabled .  Myth 3: Saving Lives Leads to Overpopulation And the last myth is that saving lives leads to overpopulation .  I hear this all the time and it's just not true !  Population growth declines as infant mortality declines .  All over the world .  It is that simple .  To quote Melinda,  " we make the future sustainable when we invest in the poor, not when we insist upon their suffering .  "  BOOM !  The  " boom "  isn't part of the quote, that is-that was my addition .  Direct Benefits of Providing AidIn short, Hank, these investments are showing phenomenal returns, and the greatest risk we face is abandoning our success because we wrongly think of it as failure .  I'm gonna say it again: fewer children died in 2013 than in any year on record .   And all this means, just to be clear, a better world not only for those living in poverty but also for the rest of us .  I know this is counter to a lot of what you hear on the news, but wealthier countries benefit when poor countries become less poor .  For one thing, there are more people on the earth with the education and well-being to make wonderful things, from paintings to smartphone apps .   But there are also more people to buy the stuff that we make, whether that's artificial lips or, for example, my novel The Fault in Our Stars .  Hank, the Brazilian edition of TFIOS is called A Culpa E Das Estrelas--  .  Even though I can't say the title of the book, it's sold hundreds of copies in Brazil--it's more popular there than in Germany or the UK .  A country once deemed incurably poor now has, by some measures, a healthier book publishing landscape than many countries in Europe .   And it's not just Brazillians who benefit from Brazil's phenomenal growth--it's also young adult novelists in Indianapolis .  Thanks and ClosingSo thanks to everyone in Brazil who's bought my book and thanks to the Gates foundation for decreasing world suck and busting those myths .  There's a link to Bill and Melinda's letter in the dooblydoo; it really is worth reading .  Hank, I will see you on Friday .   
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  Thanks for giving me your cold while we were together in Florida .  I'm just kidding .  NO THANKS !  What is the opposite of thanks .  .  .  ?  Shanks .  Shanks for the cold, Hank . Anyway, it's Question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real Nerdfighters .  Let's get right to it . Would you rather be a world famous banjo or accordion player ? I'm gonna go with world famous banjo .  I mean, being an accordion player would be fun and everything, but I'd have to be human, and all things being equal, I think I'd rather be a banjo . Hey, how to you feel about the trailer for the TFiOS movie leaking ? Kind of upset, mostly because the trailer is not, like, an iPhone video of a low-res screener .  It's in high definition, and it's beautiful .  Also, it is debuting TOMORROW !  So you can see it then .  You only have to wait like twenty-four hours .  To hold you over, here is the world premier of a ten second teaser .   Voice over  : I can't tell you how thankful I am for our little infinity .  That is what it really looks like .  French the Llama I am excited !  I am still trying to make that into a thing . Hey speaking of movies, if a movie were to be made about Dave Green, who do you think would play him ? Benedict Cumberbatch . John, do you like Dave Green more than you like Hank ? I'll tell you one thing: Dave never gave me a horrible cold . My daughter doesn't like pizza .  Is she a monster ? Doesn't give me any pleasure to tell you this, but yeah, I--I think she might be a monster .  I mean, it could be lactose intolerance or a gluten thing, but it--most likely monsterness . How excited are you about Esther's book coming out today ? SO flipping excited .  This book is wonderful .  Please run, don't walk, to your nearest bookstore to get a copy .  There's also a link in the dooblydoo where you can buy one on the Internet .  In fact I'm going to do a live show tomorrow to read from the book and talk more about it, so I'll see you then . Have you ever thought about the fact that guinea pigs are basically just meat potatoes ? Mmm, I prefer to think of potatoes as like hairless, vegetarian guinea pigs . Who's your favorite member of One Direction ? I don't know, is there a nerdy one ?  Hold on, I'll call Meredith and ask .    Who's the nerdiest member of one direction ?  All right, Niall .  Thank you .    .  Niall is my favorite member of One Direction .  I don't know how to spell his name .  Is it like the river ? Anyway, enough about how old I am .  Let's move on . Do you like your handwriting ?   Not really .  Everything I write looks like a ransom note authored by a seven year old . I just read Franny and Zooey, and I can't stop thinking about the quote  " I'm sick of not having the courage to be an absolute nobody .  "  What do you think of that ? That's one of my favorite lines in that book, actually .  I think it takes tremendous courage to do things that are worth doing rather than, like, worrying over whether you're going to be celebrated for having done them . Chocolate chip cookies or Oreos ? I think you meant  " and .  "  Chocolate chip cookies and Oreos .   And the answer to that is yes . If all the drawings you'd ever drawn came to life and followed you around, how would you react ?   I'd be like,  " Man, I don't know if those are horses or giraffes, but they sure are ugly .  " Which U . S .  president would you have play a character in The Fault in our Stars movie ? All right, Gus is Obama; Hazel is Thomas Jefferson; Hazel's mom and dad are respectively Millard Fillmore and James K .  Polk;  Andrew Johnson plays Van Houten; Isaac is played by Ulysses S .  Grant with no beard; Patrick-the-support-group-leader: Jimmy Carter; Gus's mom: Martin Van Buren; Gus's dad: Ronald Reagan; I cast the whole movie ! Do you have any fishing boat proceeds for 2013 ?  Sadly, no, still no fishing boat proceeds .  My Tumblr generates lots of gifs, but no income .  The fishing boat proceeds joke is now, like, fully seven years old, and almost no one gets it, but I assume that old Nerdfighters will explain it to new Nerdfighters in comments . At what point am I considered a Nerdfighter ? If you wanna be a Nerdfighter, you probably already are one . Favorite fairy tale growing up ? The Emperor's New Clothes . Favorite museum in Amsterdam ? The Stedelijk . Do penguins have knees ? Yes . What color are your socks ? Green .  And lastly, John, how many back-flips can you do ?   So I think you just kinda--you go down like this, and then you just--y'just kick your legs way up, and you do a back-flip .  Hyuh !  OAHH .  Hiyehgy AHHHH .  Oww hohoho .  Haww .  Zero .  Zero, I can do zero back-flips .  Now Hank, I don't want to make excuses for my inability to do a back-flip, but I did get pretty close to success even though, you know, I have a massive cold that was caused by you . Hank, I'll see you on Friday, but before I go, here is the teaser one last time .   Voice over  : I can't tell you how thankful I am for our little infinity .                  
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday .  So you've started a lot of businesses: Crash Course, SciShow, DFTBA Records, VidCon, the ceaseless juggernaut that is 2D Glasses .   And Hank, your companies employ dozens of people, none of whom work for the federally mandated minimum wage of 7 dollars 25 cents per hour .  But Hank, let's imagine that your next project is a fast food restaurant,  " Corn dogs and Sodium "  .  What impact would raising the federal minimum wage have on you and your employees ?  At first glance it seems like a no brainer: any minimum wage is terrible, both for  " Corn dogs and Sodium "  and for its employees .  The Econ 101 argument goes like this: the free market is going to set wages where they need to be, like if you want to pay 5 dollars an hour for  " Corn dogs and Sodium "  employees, but no one takes the job for 5 dollars an hour, you're gonna have to pay more . You'll increase your wages until you can attract the kind of employees that you need to, you know, batter and fry and serve encased, cast-off pig meat .   And we know that economies tend to grow less when governments set and control prices, so higher minimum wages restrict economic growth .  Plus, unemployment will go up because of minimum wage is 10 dollars per hour,  " Corn dogs and Sodium "  could only afford to hire one person .   But if there was an unrestricted wage market, then they could attract two people who'd be willing to work for 5 dollars an hour each . So in the end, setting a minimum wage is an attempt to alleviate poverty, that actually increases it .  However Hank, surprisingly enough, it turns out that actual labor markets are a lot more complex than the models of labor markets created by college freshmen . This brings us to a famous study by two economists, David Card and Alan Krueger .  So in 1992, the state of New Jersey raised its minimum wage 18 . 8 percent .  Pennsylvania, right next door, did not raise its minimum wage .  Card and Krueger had the bright idea to go to the border of New Jersey and Pennsylvania, and do employment surveys on either side of it .   And what they found is that restaurant employment in New Jersey actually increased when the minimum wage went up .  Since then, a bunch of other studies have confirmed Card and Krueger's findings, while some have found that there actually are negative effects to employment when you raise the minimum wage, although it's surprisingly and consistently mild . Why ?  Well, a bunch of reasons .  For one, the minimum wage is probably near where the market would set it .   But also, low-wage workers tend to spend most of their pay raises, which leads to increased economic activity, which in turn leads to more jobs .   And higher wages also mean less turnover, which leads to lower costs of training, and hiring, and firing . On the downside, higher wages are also associated with higher prices on goods and services that rely on low-wage labor, which means that your corn dogs, Hank, would probably be a little bit more expensive .   But Hank, the larger question is whether raising the minimum wage actually reduces poverty .   And on that front, there is growing consensus that at least in the medium run, it does .  A number of big recent studies have shown that raising the minimum wage 10 percent reduces the number of people in poverty by about 2 . 5 percent . Even many opponents of the minimum wage acknowledge this, but it's important to know that like, that won't always work .  At some point, raising the minimum wage will lead to inflation and slower job creation .  It's just not clear where that point is .   But it's just as disingenuous to call the minimum wage a  " job-killer " , as it is to say that the minimum wage is gonna fix economic inequality .  In short Hank, in economics, there's no such thing as a  " free lunch " , but when it comes to reducing poverty without affecting employment, higher minimum wages seem at least to be the cheapest lunch available .  But ultimately, Hank, now that I'm, I guess, an employer, I'm more persuaded by the personal argument .  We found that paying a living wage, which we would do even if we opened  " Corn dogs and Sodium " , leads to happier, more productive employees .  Now, I know that's hard to quantify, but it's also what's allowed VidCon and DFTBA Records to retain employees for years and years, and grow sustainably . Now Hank, obviously I am not an economist, although I did win a bronze medal in Economics at the Alabama State Academic Decathlon tournament in 1993, but our strategy has worked out pretty well for us so far, and it's also working in much larger companies like Costco . Hank, the United States is a rich country, and I think there's a growing body of evidence that the US doesn't benefit from having poor workers .  Of course raising the minimum wage isn't gonna fix that problem, but I hope at least we can begin to have a nuanced conversation about the problem . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  Old school Vlogbrothers video where I sit down with no idea what I'm going to talk about .  .  about, what I'm going to talk - whatever, sometimes you need to end a sentence with a preposition . Okay, so a while ago I was getting dressed for a cocktail party and I was putting on like, proper fancy pants and everything, and I was looking at myself in the mirror, and I said to Sarah,  " I feel like I look like a middle aged man in this outfit "  .   And then Sarah paused for like a quarter second too long before saying,  " No no no, you look great !  "   And I realized, I look like a middle aged man, because I am a middle aged man .  Like if I die at double my current age, people won't be like,  " Oh, it's a tragedy " , they'll be like,  " Nyehh, he had a good run .  Could of been better, wasn't terrible "  . My theory about middle age is that if you triple your current age, and that's like a reasonable age for a human being to be, then you're not yet middle aged .  I mean Hank you're 33, you triple that you're 99, that's right on the edge .  I'm 36, you're triple that, that's 108 .  Living to 108 doesn't even seem like a good outcome to me .  Anyway, there are tons of obviously negative things about being middle aged, but there are also some advantages, you know, like the stability of adulthood, and the pleasure of parenting .  But the biggest thing, Hank, is that no one expects me to know anything about pop culture, which is great because I don't .  And this brings us, belatedly, to Justin Bieber . To be honest with you, Hank, I know this sounds crazy, but I don't think I've ever heard a Justin Bieber song .  Actually, I'm gonna listen to like his top 5 songs right now, and see if I've ever heard any of them .  Hold on . Okay, this one's called  " Boyfriend "  .  It has like, 3 hundred million views .  I haven't heard this song before .  It's kinda good .  Is he a rapper ?  It's a good song, I never heard it before though .  Alright, lets see the next one . Okay, this one's called uh, this one's called  " One Time "  .  Oh he looks much younger in this video .  I kinda like this one as well .  Although he just rhymed  " knock "  with  " stop "  .  Yeah, I never heard that song before in my life .  Okay, let's see what's next .   " Beauty and da Beat " , featuring Nicki Minaj .  Nope .  Uh, I have never heard  " Beauty and da Beat "  . I'm only gonna try one more .  It's the most viewed one ever .  It's called  " Baby "  and it features Ludacris .  This seems familiar to me .  I feel like I have heard this song before .  I feel like I've heard it, but I feel like I've heard a cover of it or something ?  Anyway, that one is definitely familiar .   " Baby "  featuring Ludacris is familiar to me .  So there you have it, I've heard one Justin Bieber song, I think .   And yet .  Despite my obvious and complete ignorance of Justin Bieber and his work, I can tell you that Justin Bieber was recently arrested for DUI, driving a rented Lamborghini, and in fact, I can tell you the color of that Lamborghini: it was yellow . Why do I know this, Hank ?  Non-rhetorical question .  Why do I know about it ?  I have no investment in Justin Bieber, I mean I don't think he should drink and drive, but I don't think anyone should drink and drive .  Why do I know the color of that Lamborghini ?  Why do I have the image of Britney Spears' shaved head imprinted upon my mind where I might be remembering, I don't know, how to speak Dutch or something . So Hank, I feel like a relatively small number of people raises someone up to the level of celebrity, and then everyone gets to participate in like, relishing their downfall .  It seems to me that Justin Bieber is now more likely to be on the cover of tabloid magazines than he was back when he was doing really well, like in the  " Baby "  era--OHHHHHHH !   " Baby "  !  It's from your song Hank !  The  " Ice Cream Changes "  song, I know it because of your song !  If you don't know what I'm talking about, link in the Doobly-doo .   But Hank, I haven't heard that Justin Bieber song, I only heard your cover of it .  I'm still zero for Bieber !  Or, I was, until I listened to those songs anyway, which I quite liked . Hank, I don't want to excuse anyone's behavior, and I certainly don't want to act like celebrity is the most troubling form of oppression out there .   But I do worry about the way we approach celebrities' problems with relish .  Not so much because it's bad for the celebrities, but because I think it might be bad for us . I don't think relentless public chastising much helps anyone .  If it did, we would see this happen less, and we aren't . Hank, it's really hard to choose what we pay attention to, but I think in a lot of ways it's also one of the most important choices we make .  So here's to sober driving, imagining others complexly, and not paying attention to the color of someone else's rented Lamborghini . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . So this week, my book The Fault in Our Stars is at number one on USA Today and New York Times best seller list, which is bananas, and it's made me think about all the books I've loved that aren't best sellers .  So today Hank I want to introduce you to 18 books I've loved that you haven't read and probably very few people watching this video have read .   And then Nerdfighters, in comments, if you could leave names of books that you love that I probably haven't read; I'll read 18 of them and review them in a future video .  Okay, let's get to it ! 1 .  Okay, let's start with sports !  This Bloody Mary is the Last Thing I Own by Jonathan Rendall .  Best book title ever !  Also my favorite boxing book ever . 2 .  Speaking of unusual areas of my expertise, One of Us by Alice Domurat Dreger, which is by far the best non-fiction book ever written about conjoined twins .  It's also just an amazing book about disability and unusual anatomies and how people in power tend to essentialize and marginalize the other .  3 .  Okay, couple of funny books: Round Ireland with a Fridge by Tony Hawks, not Tony Hawk .  It's about a guy who hitchhikes around the circumference of Ireland with a refrigerator; it is one of the funniest things I've ever read .  Also excellent, Tony Hawks' follow-up book, Playing the Moldovans at Tennis, in which he plays tennis with every member of the Moldovan National Soccer team . 4 .  The Unthinkable Thoughts of Jacob Green by, yes, that is Zach Braff's brother, Joshua .  Great coming-of-age novel, worth the price of admission just for Jacob Green's Bar Mitzvah thank-you notes . 5 .  Now you may have read MT  Anderson's The Astonishing Life of Octavian Nothing, one of the best novels of the past decade, but you probably haven't read MT  Anderson's surprisingly brilliant vampire novel, Thirsty . 6 .   And speaking of great YA novels, Cecil Castellucci's book, Boy Proof came out in 2005, and the haunting and beautiful story of this outcast girl named Egg, has stuck with me ever since . 7 .  Also E Lockhart's Fly on the Wall, a brilliant feminist reworking of Kafka's Metamorphosis, ugh, it's so hard to say metamorphosis,  : they're gonna know about your lisp now; they already know about your lisp now, no, just .  .  . moving on ! 8 .  Tayari Jones is most famous for her book Leaving Atlanta, which is great, but this book, The Untelling, captures the precariousness of working-class life just beautifully . 9 .  Speaking of beautiful, The Golden Rule by my mentor, Ilene Cooper .  If you have a child you may have noticed that they don't, like, inherently excel at empathy .  This book has been huge for us in talking to Henry about imagining how other people are feeling . 10 .  One more picture book: Show Way by Jacque Woodson, one of my all-time favorite picture books and also one of Henry's favorites . 11 .  E . E .  Cummings' first book, The Enormous Room .  I don't know why this isn't famous .  It's Cummings' memoir of being imprisoned and falsely accused of treason during WWI, it's also a brilliant examination of, like, the relationship between the individual and the collective . 12 .  Hugely influential book: Susan Sontag's Regarding the Pain of Others which made me think a lot about the difference between representing and exploiting pain in art .  Also in an image saturated age, this is absolutely required reading about the unreliability of the image . 13 .  Death Comes for the Archbishop by Willa Cather may be the most important novel about American religion .  Why doesn't every American high school student have to read this ?  I don't know . 14 .  A book I'm almost sure you haven't read, This Blinding Absence of Light by Tahar Ben Jelloun, I'm probably saying his name wrong, I apologize .  It's that, that, that name !  This book fictionalizes the story of real political prisoners who lived for decades in complete darkness in 6' x 3' rooms .  It's a little intense but it's really really good . 15 .  Speaking of which, Kendra by Coe Booth .  Her first book Tyrell is more famous, I like this one just as much . 16 .  The Optimist's Daughter by Eudora Welty .  Out of fashion these days but I think the best book by one of the best 20th century writers . 17 .  Speaking of the South, Will You Miss Me When I'm Gone: The Carter Family and their Legacy in American Music .  This book inspired an early VlogBrothers video, link in the dooblydoo, but it's also just excellent ! 18 .   And finally The Last Summer of Reason, a novel about a bookstore owner who lives in a country overtaken by extremists who believe that art is evil . So there you have it, 18 books I loved that aren't bestsellers but should be; I look forward to your suggestions Nerdfighters - I will see you in comments .  Hank - I'll see you on Friday .                  
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  I want to talk about Ukraine today, but this is extremely complicated and I just want to apologize in advance for anything that I get wrong/leave out/oversimplify .  Okay ?  Okay .   So this is Ukraine, the second largest country in Europe by area, and this is the Crimean Peninsula, which saw much of the fighting in the Crimean War that lasted from 1853 to 1856 .  It was sort of a Catholic versus Orthodox thing, but the larger cause was Europe fearing that Russia's power would expand as the Ottoman Empire declined .  So Britain, France, and the kind-of-still-a-thing Ottoman Empire teamed up to eventually defeat Russia, and 500,000 people died, and it was generally pretty awful and obviously resolved very little since Europe, just 60 years later, would go ahead and have World War I .   Then, towards the end of World War I, Russia had its famous Communist Revolution and Ukraine enjoyed a brief period of independence, although  " enjoyed "  may not be quite the right verb .  In fact, from 1917 to 1921, Ukraine was mired in endless wars among competing factions, including Poland, and the USSR, and Ukrainian nationalists, even some real, live anarchists .  It was all very complicated .  It was also extremely violent; more than 1 . 5 million people died .   And then finally Ukraine became part of the USSR and things became more stable for a while, but then Stalin .   As many as 10 million Ukrainians starved to death in 1932 and 1933 thanks to Stalin's agricultural policies, which were not just stupid but also actively evil .  I mean there was widespread starvation in a country that is now the world's third largest exporter of grain .  Then, following World War II, Stalin forcibly deported the Crimean Peninsula's entire indigenous population of ethnic Tatars to central Asia . So if you want to point to one individual who is responsible for a lot of this, I don't want to, you know, call anyone out, but Stalin .  Stalin also moved many ethnic Russians into Ukraine, especially into the Crimean Peninsula and the western   part of the country, which is the industrial center .  And then, Stalin's successor Khrushchev decided to transfer the Crimean Peninsula from Russia to Ukraine in 1954 .  Why ?  Well Khrushchev had lots of ties to Ukraine, but also the Crimean peninsula is not actually physically attached to Russia .  As you can see here  , it is physically attached to Ukraine and it gets all of its electricity and water from Ukraine, and it's easier to administer places which you are physically connected to, which is why Alaska should be part of Canada, but that is a different story .   Okay, so quick contemporary demographic snapshot .  Today about 67% of people living in Ukraine speak Ukrainian as their first language, about 30% speak Russian, although only 17% of the population identify as ethnically Russian .     And as you can see here, Russian is spoken mostly in the west   and in the Crimean Peninsula .  Many Tatars have return to Crimea since the breakup of the Soviet Union, but today they only make up about 12% of the population .   Okay, so flash forward to December of 1991, after the Soviet Union has broken up, Ukraine has a nation-wide referendum and 90% of people, including a majority of those living in the Crimean peninsula, voted for independence from Russia .   But, Ukraine remained much more closely aligned with Russia than many other Soviet republics did, like, for instance, Estonia, which is now part of the European Union . In 2004, there was an election and there were widespread reports of vote rigging, but the Russian friendly Viktor Yanukovych was elected .  The opposition leader, Viktor Yushchenko led massive street protests in Kiev which came to be known as the Orange Revolution .  That opposition leader Yushchenko was disfigured and almost died as a result of a mysterious poisoning .  Side note:  But the number of mysterious poisonings in Russian and Eastern Europe has absolutely skyrocketed since Putin came to power in Russia, which I'm sure is a coincidence . Anyway, the Orange Revolution protests lead to a second election and the poisoned opposition leader Yushchenko won, and  " Yay !  Everything would be made of puppies and freedom and rainbows and friendliness towards Europe forever " , except, no . For one thing, a lot of people in Ukraine, especially the western   part, want to be more closely allied with Russia, and also, despite being an economist, Yushchenko wasn't very good at running the Ukrainian economy .  Also, Yushchenko couldn't push through austerity measures needed to deal with Ukraine's rising debt, and his friendliness towards Europe infuriated Russia, which cut of gas supplies briefly but disastrously to Ukraine in 2006 .   So, by 2010, Ukraine was being led by the Europe-friendly and somewhat corrupt Yulia Tymoshenko, and then there were elections .   And the presidential election, declared free and fair by international observers, was won by the aforementioned Russian-friendly, Viktor Yanukovych .  In November 2013, Yanukovych announced Ukraine would abandon an agreement to strengthen ties with the EU and would instead become a closer ally of Russia, and that is when the protests began in Kiev's Independence Square . Those protests grew, and grew until February 20th, when dozens of protesters were killed by military and police, and the next day, Yanukovych disappeared from Kiev .  The protesters had won, they installed a new temporary government to prepare for new elections .   And then the Putin regime marched into the Crimean peninsula, ostensibly to protect ethnic Russians there and Russian military installations, but this violation of Ukraine's territorial integrity is known in diplomatic circles as, like, a big F-ing deal . Crimea is already an autonomous province, with its own government, so, what does it want ?  Does it want independence ?  That would be hard - all of their electricity and water has to come through Ukraine .  Does it want to be part of Russia again ?  That would be impossible without Ukrainian cooperation, which right now seems inconceivable .  So that's where we are right now, I mean, unless something has happened in the last 30 minutes .   So here's one narrative of these events: an unpopular and ineffective, but democratically elected politician was removed from power by a mob of protesters and the new, unelected parliament briefly passed a law saying that only Ukrainian can be the official language of the country, even though many people in the country speak Russian .  Furthermore, this new government wants to become part of the EU, which might bring NATO missiles to Russia's border, and that is unacceptable to Russia .  I mean, I'm American, we've had some very ineffective and unpopular leaders, and what we've done is just waited for them not to be president anymore .    But here's another narrative: a tyrannical leader who ordered the murder of peaceful protesters, was chased from power and replaced by a government that will transition Ukraine towards free and fair elections, and Russia responded to that by invading Ukraine .   Hank, I'm not trying to make a false equivalence here, but I think it's really important to understand both of these narratives and I wanted to give a little more historical context than we've been seeing on the news because it helps us to understand that the pull between Western Europe and Russia and Ukraine is not new .  I mean, the word Ukraine itself means  " borderland "  . It has for centuries functioned as the border between West and East .  What Ukraine needs is stability, decades of stability, so it can grow to have its own identity, to have relationships with both Europe and Russia without being controlled by either . Right now that dream seems really far away, but 60 years ago, Japan was in ruins; 25 years ago, Germany was divided into two countries; 12 years ago, Sierra Leone was mired in a horrific and seemingly endless civil war, but today it's the second fastest growing economy in the world . The arc of history is long, Hank, let's hope that it bends toward peace .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank; it's Tuesday .  It's question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real Nerdfighters; let's get right to it . Why is Hamlet's father also named Hamlet ? Just some old-fashioned Shakespearean doubling, by the way that'll be discussed in detail in next weeks CrashCourse Literature . Do you think the TFiOS movie is actually good or do you feel obliged to say that because it's based off of your book ? That's a good question; to be totally honest if I didn't like it I would still try to find nice things to say about it, like  " Oh, the set design is amazing "  or  " Man, that Ansel Elgort sure looks good in a Rik Smits jersey .  "   But, in fact, I actually love the movie .  Now I might be wrong .  I am not at all objective, but, yeah, I love it . Do you think people who read are more empathetic than those who don't ? Yeah, there are actually studies that show a correlation between empathy and reading, at least when it comes to literary fiction . Where do you stand on elbows ? I don't; I only stand on my feet .  I'm not very coordinated . I don't watch your videos, why should I ?  Look, I don't want to criticize anyone but that is a terrible question Tuesday question because if I answer it, you definitionally won't hear my justification for why you should watch my videos because you don't watch my videos .   But this brings up a bigger question: How do you get to the people that aren't inside the camera ?  Maybe there's no one inside the camera; maybe I'm just staring into the void .  Oh god, I feel an existential crisis coming on . Thoughts on the ocean ? I don't know, the tide goes in, the tide goes out .  What does it even really matter anymore ? Are there more stars in the universe or grains of sand on earth ? Well, see that's an interesting and beautiful question that makes me grateful to be able to apprehend the universe .  Suddenly I've been lifted out of my funk !  I think there are more stars .  More stars than there are grains of sand on earth and there are a lot of grains of sand !  Anyway you can find more info in the dooblydoo . How are you enjoying participating in The Art Assignment ? Oh, it's so fun; it's the most fun I've had in a long time .  It actually reminds me of the early days of Vlogbrothers because there's this tight-knit community, like, doing projects together and responding to each other's work; it's just really, really awesome . How excited are you for the Divergent movie in two weeks ? I am  " already-bought-my-tickets-for-opening-day "  excited . What are your predictions for this years IndyCar season ? How did you guys find out that I'm a secret fan of IndyCar ?  Anyway I think the Indie 500 is gonna be won, for the second time, by Tony Kanaan and I think the series title is going to go to Will Power, and yes that is his real name . Can you say DFTBA in French ? I can try .    D-F-T-B-A   . Why do writers use symbolism ? OK, let's say that you have a headache and you want to tell someone about it and you say  " I have a headache "  and other people are like  " Yeah whatever, everybody gets headaches "  .   But your headache is not a regular headache; it's a serious headache .  So you say  " my brain is on fire "  to try to help these people understand that this is a headache that needs attention .  That's a metaphor, right ?   And you use it so that you can be understood . Now let's say you want to take those same imagistic principles but apply them to a much more complex idea than having a headache, like for instance, the yearning that one feels for one's dreams .  Then you can see the dream but you can't cross the bay to get to the green light that embodies your dream .   And you want to talk about how socio-economic class in America is a barrier, a bay-like barrier some would say, that stands between you and the green light and makes that gap unbridgeable .  Now you can just talk about that stuff directly but when you talk about it symbolically, it becomes more powerful because instead of being abstract, it becomes kind of observable .  So I think that's why, all right, what's the next question ? Who has the best butt: you or Hank ? I don't think either of us has the best butt; the best butt I've everpersonally seen is actually Wil Wheaton's .  Wait, did I just think that or did I say it out loud ? Have you ever dreamed to be a pizza ? Mmm, no that's one of those dreams that seems initially promising but in fact I think would be a horrible nightmare .  Like just imagine smelling like pizza and knowing that you would taste like pizza but then also knowing that if you eat yourself, you will die and ergo not be able to ever eat pizza again . What are you most excited about right now ? What a great question !  That's something I should ask myself everyday .  I think right now it's The Art Assignment, but I wanna know what you're most excited about, so let me know in comments . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . So when Sarah and I moved to New York, in 2005, we hired some people off Craigslist to help us move our furniture into our new apartment; including a guy from, I think, Eastern Europe, and when I asked him why he'd moved to the United States he said  " In New York anyone who can work can work " , which is like the best one sentence summary of an efficient labor market I've ever heard .  Anyway when he asked what I did I told him that my first novel  " Looking for Alaska "  had come out recently; and he said  " Oh, I wanna work in publishing " ; and I was thinking, you know  " Yeah, book publishing's a good star to hitch your wagon to "  and then we went back to moving boxes . Flash forward about a year .  I'm at a big publishing conference and a guy wearing a suit walks up to me and says  " Hey, I moved you into your apartment, Looking for Alaska !  "  and it was the guy from Craigslist and sure enough he was working in international sales for a huge publishing company .  And that's the American Dream, right ?  People come to our fair shores because here anyone who can work can work .  Our national self-understanding is supported by anecdotes like this: from the Craigslist furniture mover; to the impoverished child turned steel magnate  Andrew Carnegie, or Car-NAY-gee depending on how pretentious you are .   But Hank, the actual data is somewhat less dreamy . Quick aside to all of you saying that I should say  " data are "  because  " data "  is a plural noun .  .  .  come on . Right but anyway 42% of American men raised in the bottom 20% of incomes stay there .  In the UK that number is 30%; in Denmark, it's 25% .  In fact by almost any measure, whether you are born rich or poor in the United States is a better indicator of whether you will end up rich or poor than it is in Canada or Europe or any country in the developed world .  When we talk about socioeconomic mobility and equality of opportunity in the 21st century, we're not really talking about the American Dream .  We're talking about the Danish Dream .  Here's another metric that I think is really interesting: Economic opportunities for women .  In the United States, women make 77 cents for every dollar that men make in the workforce .  Just to be clear, that's horrifically unjust, but it's also really economically problematic because you don't want people to be paid according to their sex .  You want them to be paid according to their skills and contributions .  So in the US, women make 77 cents for every Dude Dollar .  Canada is actually worse than us but they have a little bit of a weird economy .   But in Australia it's 83 cents; in the UK it's 84; in Sweden it's 85 .   And in Slovenia, the world's most underrated country, women make 97 . 5 cents for every dollar that men make in the workforce .  Now Hank, the American Dream remains uniquely  " American "  in one sense: we are far more likely than residents of other countries to believe that people are rewarded for intelligence and skill, and we're less likely to believe that coming from a wealthy family is key to getting ahead .  Unfortunately, like a lot of dreams, what we're dreaming isn't real .  Now Hank, I want to add that the same regulations in redistributive tax policies that allow for better equality of opportunity in the rest of the world do limit innovation .   And that's definitely part of the reason why hugely innovative companies like Apple and Twitter and Google and In-n-Out Burger all started in the US .   But my worry is that systemic inequality of opportunity will prevent the most promising future innovators from getting the opportunities they need to succeed .   And I worry that the US will become progressively less appealing to the smartest people with the best skills .  I mean, the place where  " if you can work, you can work "  won't be the US anymore, it'll be Denmark or Slovenia . Like, Hank, if you're a female computer programmer today and you have both a Slovenian and an American passport, you're probably still best off working in the United States .   But if current trends continue, that may not be the case in a decade .   And that's why systemic inequality of opportunity is bad, not just for Americans living in poverty, but for all Americans .  By the way shoutout to Slovenian readers of Krive So Zvezde, I'm basically fluent in Slovenian .  Hank, I also wanted to say thanks for your video on consent and abuse; it really did make me proud to be your brother .  D'oh my god what is this, Esther Day ?  I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . So next month I'm going on a brief tour with Nat Wolff, Shailene Woodley, and Ansel Elgort, who play, respectively, Isaac, Hazel, and Gus in The Fault in Our Stars movie .   And people get to decide where we're going, and I have to remember to talk about that, but first I wanna talk about prisons .  Boy, today's video is gonna be funny ! Hank, a lot of times when we talk to non-profits about outreach, they're like we're gonna make a GIF   of poop on a stick because clean water is important, and poop is funny, and your audience will like that, because you guys are funny .  Then I'm like a) I think you mean GIF   or GIF  , I mean words belong to their users, but GIF   is a stretch, and b) I don't think that funny stuff actually works; people just want you to talk about what you care about .  It's not like we rely on pratfalls to get laughs or whatever . Anyway, I've lost the thread .  I really liked your video about prisons but there were a couple things .  .  . oooohhhh !  Ow .  Oh .  That actually turned into a very painful pratfall .  That better have been funny .  Right, anyway, I really liked your video about prisons .  It spurred some interesting discussions, and I wanted to add a couple things .  First, there was a lot of talk in comments about the role of race in sentencing, and the data there is pretty overwhelming in the U . S .  A 2013 study by the U . S .  Sentencing Commission found that African-Americans on average received sentences 20% longer than white people who committed similar crimes .  Also, they found that that disparity is actually increasing .  Socio-economic class is also a big factor in sentencing, and the question of length of sentence brings me to one other point I want to make . Per capita, a bunch of European countries actually admit more people to prison per year than the US does, but their sentences are much shorter; and that's one of the big reasons we have the highest incarceration rate in the world .  It isn't that we sentence so many people to prison, it's that we sentence them for so long .   And in the US that's driven largely by long sentences for drug offenses .  I've put some links in the dooblydoo for those who are interested . Alright, moving on to TFIOS movie stuff, so quick catch up Hank: I wrote a book called The Fault in Our Stars; which by the way comes out in paperback today, that's probably what I should have made my video about, but whatever, I wanted to talk about prisons .   And GIFs  , apparently .  Anyway, the movie adaptation of The Fault in Our Stars comes out June 6th, but like the hullabaloo and travel leading into the movie for me like now .  And as part of that hullabaloo, Nat, and Ansel, and Shailene, and I are going to be visiting several places around the U . S . , doing I don't really know what yet .   But it will be fun, I'm sure !   And Fox is letting people choose where we go based on Tumblr notes for various states, so you can go to the link in the dooblydoo, find your state, like and reblog it, and that counts as, like, two votes for your state . Now, Hank, you would think - and I would think Fox probably thought - that the votes would like up according to the population of each state, but at least so far, no !  There are some very well-organized small states, which is awesome, because I would like to visit North Carolina ! Anyway, selfishly, Hank, I want Nerdfighters to decide where we go, so Nerdfighters, if you don't mind, go like and reblog your state on the Tumblr .  What's that ?  Oh, apparently it's not called  " the Tumblr " , Hank, it's just  " Tumblr "  .  Nah .  I grow old, Hank .  I grow old .  I am literally wearing the bottoms of my trousers rolled . Hank, I don't even know what this video is about today .  Like, what do you call a video like this ?   " TFIOS Prison Movie "  ?  I just had a great idea for a movie !  Alright, Hank, I have to drop everything and go write my TFIOS Prison Movie screenplay, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  I'm doing a photoshoot in which they want me to pretend to vlog so I'm going to actually vlog .  Here are all the people taking my picture . Woke up in Los Angeles at 6:15 in the morning on Saturday, brushed my teeth, got my picture taken while taking moving pictures of myself, and then got on a hotel elevator clearly not designed for people who fear heights . I don't like this at all . Met up with Eleanor & Park author Rainbow Rowell and then went to USC for the L . A .  Times book festival where my long time editor Julie Strauss-Gabel was talking to Maya Van Wagenen, a 15-year-old who has written a fascinating and wonderful anthropological experiment/memoir called Popular .   And then I got to ride in a golf cart - you can just see my glee - before heading backstage to prepare for my event .  I was very nervous backstage, but man, the lighting was fantastic .  Hank, before I go on stage for book stuff now, I always remind myself of my readings, and there were many of them, that were attended by between 0 and 3 people, and I give thanks for Brotherhood 2 . 0 and Nerdfighteria and for you, Hank, and then I take a deep breath and, well .  .  .   So I talked to all these nice people for a while, and then went over to sign books for several hours where I met lots of people wearing various  " okay, okay "  shirts, and TFIOS iPhone cases, and TFIOS nails, and a dog named Alaska, and this couple who met through Nerdfighteria and now are married .  Then I met up with my friend Veronica Roth, and shortly thereafter, fell asleep in the cab on the way back to the hotel .  I was trying to film myself fake falling asleep, but then I actually fell asleep, so it goes .  .  .  Woke up the next morning at 5:15 to watch Liverpool - Manchester City, which was wonderful, and then terrifying, and then wonderful again . Yes !  We did it, Hank .  We being, of course, the people on the pitch, the people in the stadium, and me in Los Angeles wearing my Liverpool jacket .  And then I got to see my friend T Cooper who wrote Changers, and then I headed to different hotel to meet .  .  .  Oh, look, it's Ansel Elgort, who plays Gus in The Fault in Our Stars, and whose worldview involves a great deal of shirtlessness, and frankly, who among us can blame him ?  Sarah was there too and we drank champagne by the pool which was awesome, and then we got all fancy for the MTV Movie Awards, met up with Nat Wolff, and soon found ourselves on an actual red carpet . Hank, I really love Nerdfighteria and the chance to talk about stuff I care about with people I care about, but I don't particularly wanna be, like, a real celebrity, which is why we've always turned down TV stuff, but I'm really proud of the TFIOS movie and I want to support it, and plus I like hanging out with Nat, so there we were on the very same red carpet as, like, Jonah Hill and Grumpy Cat .   Nat and I tried to answer questions even though the screaming and the cameras resulted in both of us, to use internet parlance, losing our ability to even .  It was really, really overwhelming, Hank, and interviewers kept asking me how I was handling the attention that accompanies a book becoming a movie and if our community would change because of it, and I wanted to answer every question by saying  " I AM FREAKING OUT RIGHT NOW !  "  And I found myself thinking of Grumpy Cat, who, in spite of it all, remained, you know, cat-like, and grumpy, and I thought:  " You know what ?  Grumpy Cat has this thing figured out !  "  So Nerdfighteria, this is gonna be weird and hopefully awesome, but let's just focus on continuing to do the stuff that we're good at, okay ?   And on that subject:Hi, Hank .  Me from the future here .  In a stunning turn of events, I find myself in an airport .  Anyway, we are relaunching the Nerdfighter Book Club, and our new book is going to be Behind the Beautiful Forevers, by Katherine Boo, a fascinating and nuanced look at poverty in one Indian community, so check it out; link's in the doobly-doo .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  I want to talk today about what's going on in the Central African Republic, but first a couple prefatory notes .      One, in the US especially, we tend to image Africa monolithically as, like, poor and undeveloped and generally other, even though it is a large continent full of vastly different nations .   And, while today we are going to talk about an African state that has struggled more or less continually since its independence, it's worth remembering that seven of the world's ten fastest growing economies are in Africa . Two, this is speculation, but I think one of the reasons we don't hear about what's going on in the Central African Republic, is that it's complicated .  You know, we like narratives, like the Rebels versus the Empire, or Harry versus Voldemort, or Dora versus Swiper the Fox .  I'm sorry; I watch a lot of children's TV .  Like, we can stand some shades of grey in our heroes and our villains, but we love to know who the heroes are and who the villains are .   And I think a lot of times when new stories don't fit that narrative, we just ignore them because the idea of good guys and bad guys is so central to our understanding of ourselves and our world that we can't abandon it .  And I also think, if I can tangent on a tangent, that this is part of why our interest lags when international news stories grow, like, less narratively powerful .  Like, it's easy to root for the rebels in Cairo's Tahrir Square when they want freedom and democracy, but the actual complex business of rebuilding a state, as we've seen in Egypt and elsewhere, gets somewhat less attention . Okay, with all that noted, the Central African Republic is here in, you guessed it, the center of Africa; although, to be fair, it has not often been much of a republic .  Life expectancy in the CAR is 51, and it's one of the poorest countries in the world today .  So after declaring independence from France in 1960, there were several decades of military rule, but then in 1993, there were multi-party elections, and the elected president was Ange-Felix Patasse, and initially, the economy grew under Patasse, but he failed to be able to pay the military and civil servants which is, like, one of the central things that governments do .  Also there was quite a bit of corruption, and there were several coup attempts over the next decade .  So Patasse remained president until 2003 when a military coup finally succeeded .  Military leader Francois Bozize succeeded by using the time-honored tactic of waiting until the president was out of town and then quickly seizing the government . So obviously the CAR has long struggled with security and political stability, like in the east of the country, the Lord's Resistance Army, led by Joseph Kony, whom you might remember from his brief moment of 'Kony 2012' internet fame - yeah, that guy - his group has been murdering and torturing people for decades .  In fact, it's believed by many that Kony is hiding out in the Central African Republic .   But also, both the Patasse and Bozize regimes relied on foreign armies from Chad and the Democratic Republic of Congo and elsewhere to help, like, shore up their governments .  But, security-wise, after Bozize took power in 2003, things got significantly worse .  So there was this group, the Union of Democratic Forces for Unity that combined with other rebel groups and began to fight against Bozize's regime in what came to be known as the Central African Bush War .  This involved lots of groups, like the People's Army for the Restoration of Democracy, and the Convention of Patriots for Justice and Peace, but anyway, they all banded together and tried to take down the government .  It didn't work .  Finally there was a peace treaty in 2007, but the fighting never, like, totally stopped . Okay, so flash forward to 2012: several of the groups from the Central African Bush War unite with some other rebel groups to form Seleka, which means 'union . '  And most members of Seleka belong to the CAR's Muslim minority, which is about 15% of the country's population .  They quickly take control of a bunch of towns in the north and the center, and then other African countries, including Chad, send in troops to try to protect the capital of Bangui .  But it doesn't work, so in March 2013, the capital of the Central African Republic, Bangui, falls to the Seleka rebels, and Bozize flees the country .   And one of Seleka's leaders, a Muslim, Michel Djotodia, becomes president, but almost as soon as Seleka takes power, there's a lot of in-fighting among all of these groups that formed the union; like, it's easy to unify when you're all battling the government, but then when you have the power, everybody kinda wants some of the power . Meanwhile, there was never anything approaching peace, and Seleka militias committed all kinds of atrocities .  Like, according to Human Rights Watch, they burned dozens of towns and villages, they shot fleeing civilians in the back, and also a huge percentage of the population has been displaced .  There are tens of thousands of Christians who've fled to the Bangui airport and have remained there for months .  And now we come to the Christian anti-balaka, or anti-sword militias .  These anti-balaka groups have sought to respond to Seleka's violence with much more violence, and the anti-balaka mass murder of members of the Muslim minority is now being called by many a genocide, or at least the beginning of one .  So in January 2014, President Djotodia resigned and was replaced by a woman named Catherine Samba-Panza, but there isn't currently much of a government to lead in the Central African Republic .  Last week, the UN approved an 11,000 member security force that will hopefully bring an end to the violence, but for now, it continues . Hank, like I said earlier, this conflict is difficult and complicated .  It looks nothing like, you know, Hobbits versus Sauron .   But that isn't only the case in the Central African Republic .  I mean who were the good guys in the American Revolution ?  The Americans were for freedom and democracy, right ?  Well yeah, except for slaves who probably would have been much better off under the rule of England .  Or what about the Vietnam War, or the French Revolution, or World War I, in which so many people died for so little ? Hank, we can't just ignore stories that don't fit our understanding of the world and we also shouldn't try to, like, change them to make them fit our preconceived narratives of humanity .  We have to make room in our stories for the world as we find it .   And the Central African Republic reminds us that war is not, finally, a story of good versus evil as much as we might wish it were so .  Let's hope the UN peacekeepers arrive soon and can live up to their name . I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .   It's very early because I have to go to New York this morning . So here's a funny thing that happened, Hank: Time Magazine named me one of the one hundred most influential people in the world, so I'm going to New York to go to this party . Now, I am aware - how do I say this without sounding ungrateful - I am aware that this is an unearned honor .  Like, I can personally name several thousand people who are more influential than I am who did not make the Time 100 .  There's Liberian President, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, the actress and activist Laverne Cox, the artist Ai Weiwei . Also every single morning French President Francois Hollande wakes up and thinks,  " You know, I think today I won't use France's nuclear arsenal to start a war that would end the human species .  "   And that is an extremely influential decision .  But that noted, I am delighted and honored to have been included, and now I get to go to this party with other people on the Time 100 .  Like, maybe Vladimir Putin and Kim Il Sung .  Probably not Kim Il Sung .  However, if he is there, I promise I will take a selfie with him and then I will make a citizen's arrest for human rights violations . One more thing about the Time 100 before I get to the actual, like, topic of today's video, they called me a teen whisperer . Which made me think about, like, what if I were an actual teen whisperer .  Like,  " Hey teens, where are we gonna go to, like, take drugs and Snapchat ?  "  But it's true, Hank, I know what the teens love to talk about, Pulitzer Prize winning non-fiction books about people living in a slum in Mumbai . Alright, I have to go to the airport, but you should come with me . Movie magic !  So Hank, this summer in the Nerdfighter bookclub we're reading Behind the Beautiful Forevers by Katherine Boo, which is just a fascinating book .  But Nerdfighters, I realized that I didn't give you a due date, which is just terrible teachering on my part; I apologize; so, uh, the movie The Fault In Our Stars comes out on June 6th , things are gonna be a little crazy until then, so June 10th . You must read this book by June 10th or else nothing is going to happen to you .  Also, if you're the kind of student who wants extra credit,  and let's face it Nerdfighters, you probably are, then I think it's really interesting to read Behind the Beautiful Forevers - we need an acronym for it, like TFIOS .  .  .  BtBF .  Yes, BtBF - Anyway, I think it's really interesting to read BtBF in the context of another book about Mumbai: Maximum City .  So that's your extra credit assignment . Okay, so no spoilers but I want to talk about a few things to kinda bear in mind while you're reading Behind the Beautiful Forevers . First, I think it's really important to resist the urge to extrapolate, like this is a book about a few people living in one community; it's not a book about slums in general or India in general . Also, luck .  Hank, we like stories that make sense .  I mean that's part of the reason we tell each other stories, part of the reason why we read novels and watch movies, and we're hardwired to like stories that make sense because human memory itself is narrative, so there's like a luck-eraser inside the human mind that tells you that Z happened because of X and Y .   But actually, Z happened because of X and Y and lots of luck .  Luck of birth and genetics and circumstance and some editor at Time Magazine liking your book ! So how does our view of the world change when we incorporate luck into it instead of assuming that human life is like essentially a meritocracy ?  Okay a couple other things .  The idea of private property, that's weird, how does land become owned ?  Also water .  It's always worth paying attention to water .   And lastly, when we talk about global poverty we usually talk about people who live on the equivalent of less than $1 . 25 a day .  That's the case for more than a billion people .   But it's not the case for the people Katherine Boo writes about, who are living in Annawadi .  The people living in Annawadi live above the global poverty line and they're participating and - and some would say benefiting from - global capitalism .   But of course what that actually means in their lives turns out to be very complicated .  And Hank, that's the great thing about Behind the Beautiful Forevers .  Everything is complicated, governments, non-profit organizations, micro finance, religious organizations, complicated, people, complicated - it's so good ! Alright my flight is boarding so I gotta go .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday . Global international poverty -Loudspeaker announcement: May I have your attention please .  J: You can have my attention .  Speaker: Transportation security administration mandates the removal of unattended - J: Does it REALLY ?  !  I've never heard that before !                 
Oh good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  I didn't see you there, I was busy working on my new book in my usual novel writing position .  Anyway, today's video comes to you in 4 parts . Part 1: Johning So the nice people at The Hollywood Reporter wrote an article about The Fault In Our Stars movie and me, and they included this picture, and then long-time nerdfighter Emily posted a picture of herself doing what she called  " Johning "  .   And then Charlie McDonnell did one, and then began a massive flood of Johning including Josh Sundquist, and this very small person, and you, Hank and lots, and lots of other people .  Anyway Hank, the cast of the movie thinks that Johning is hilarious, as do I, so I just wanted to say, thank you for Johning . Part 2: Your birthday ! Hank it was your birthday yesterday .  Happy Birthday !  Unlike last year I did remember to get you a present this year from me and also from nerdfighteria .  The original arcade game, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles .  TMNT for life, Hank !  This is a real tattoo by the way, is that weird ?    It's not a real tattoo .   Also Hank, I got you a donation to Partners in Health .  Partners in Health, for actual life . Part 3: Hank Green and the Perfect Strangers It just occurred to me that this video is going to have more than 3 parts .  I apologize for that .  Why does my hair look so like weird and grown up and professional ?  Hank, your excellent new album Incongruent comes out tomorrow, so nerdfighters, that means that today is the last day that you can pre-order a signed copy .  There is a link in the doobly-doo .  Also, for those of you who prefer your goods and services digitally, the album will be out on iTunes tomorrow .  Hank, I don't want to get all Esther Day-y on you or anything, but when I was listening to the album, I was reminded of what a great musician you are in addition to all the other things you do, and I really admire you and the way that you go about your work .  I'm getting Esther Day-y .  Anyway Hank, long story short, you're not that cool, you're a grapefruit . Part 4: The many headless and/or faceless people in my hotel room So Hank I'm doing all this like TFIOS press junket stuff with the cast of the movie and they put us in a very nice hotel, but there are a lot of people in my room with no heads .  This person has no head .  This person has no head .  This person, also no head .  No head .   And then there are these people who I think have heads but definitely do not have faces .  This guy has half a face which by the standards of this hotel room puts him in like the top 1% of facedness .  Part 5: Tour So Hank, the Fault In Our Stars movie stuff is starting to like actually happen now .  Like we just had our first screening for fans of the book, which was nuts !   And most importantly, they liked the movie .  Like Hank, I guess I want the movie to do well, but to be completely honest with you, ultimately what I want is for people who care about the book a lot to like the movie .    And I got to sit in the back of the theater for like the last fifteen minutes of the movie and I heard quite a lot of sobbing, which I found very encouraging .  Anyway, now, starting today actually, I get to go on tour with Shailene and Ansel and Nat .  Okay for of these the doors will open at 5, and the show will start around 6:30 .  This is Fox's tour, not mine, so I seriously have no idea what's going to happen but I do know that it's free !   Today, we will be in Miami, Florida at the Dolphin Mall .  Is it an actual dolphin ?  Is it a gigantic dolphin that they turned into a mall ?  That seems like animal cruelty .  Wednesday, we will be in Cleveland at the Tower City Center .  Thursday, we will be in lovely Nashville, Tennessee at the War Memorial Auditorium at the Tennessee Performing Arts Center, and Friday, May 9th we'll be in Dallas, Texas at the South Side Ballroom at Gilley's, or possibly Jilley's .  Like I said earlier, I don't know much about what's gonna actually happen at these events, but I know there won't be signings because they're just expecting a lot of people .   But there will be like Q&A and general merriment .  I think it'll be fun . Hank, congratulations again on your great album and thank you for being such a good friend and brother to me in this great but also very weird time of my life .  DFTBA, Nerdfighteria !  Hank, I will see you on Friday .  
  Oh JK Rowling What are you doin' with your time ? Givin' all your money to charity and I guess that sounds just fine,  But I'm wonderin' if you got just a couple more jots .  Maybe you could, I dunno, crack a laptop .  Oh do it as a favor to me !  Do it for the kids or do it for charity !  Yeah !  Do it for the HPA !  Oh I don't really care, just do it today !    I'm giving you absolute creative freedom .  Maybe you could write up a screen play, Or a prequel musical for Broadway, Or collaborate on a comic with Joss Whedon, Or a miniseries for the BBC, Any of that sounds good to me .  I suggest you avoid cartoons Or giving Fox a chance to cancel you .   And after considering this one pretty carefully Please don't make an MMORPG, Cause that totally destroy my productivity   SO !    Oh JK Rowling What are you doin' with your time ?  Givin' all your money to charity and I guess that sounds just fine,  But I'm wonderin' if you got just a couple more jots .  Maybe you could, I dunno, crack a laptop .  Oh do it as a favor to me !  Do it for the kids or do it for charity !  Yeah !  Do it for the HPA !  Oh I don't really care just do it I don't really care just do it No I don't really care just do it today ! Just so you know, that is the shortest song on the album .  It's not an album full of minute and thirty second long songs .   It- They're mostly normal length .  I do have a special place in my heart for really short songs, so I really like that one . That video was made by Risa Rodil whose work you may know from all of her amazing things that she puts on tumblr .   And thank you to Michael and Stefan who came over late last night to help me with the dancing parts .  I don't know how to use After Effects . Incongruent is officially released !  It is in the world now; it is available on iTunes, and Google Play, and Amazon, and at DFTBA Records where you can get physical copies .   And also if you get a physical copy you will get a download link .  Just .  .  . get them both ways .  Unfortunately, due to my own idiocy, the clean version is not going to be shipping out of the warehouse for another couple of weeks yet .  Sorry .  There was a mistake .   But they WILL be signed, if you pre-ordered them . We've also finished booking the entire tour, so you can now get tickets at every single one of the stops including Pomona, which is nearby Los Angeles, but not quite Los Angeles .  San Francisco, Eugene, Portland, Seattle, Boise, Denver, and Salt Lake City .  I think I switched those last two .  A couple of the venues have changed so make sure you check and don't go to the wrong place . Hank Green and the Perfect Strangers will also be playing at VidCon .  VIDCOOOOOOOON .  Which reminds me if you haven't got your VidCon tickets yet, you need to do that right now because we're 95% sold out and I would love for as many nerdfighters to be there as possible, because I like you .  If you aren't aware of what VidCon is, it's an annual meet-up of people who love online video, uh, with concerts and panels and discussions of the culture and business of online video and performances and Q&As and signings, and it's generally a really fun time .   It's in Anaheim, and it's from June 26th to June 28th .  So three days of VidCon this year, guys .   I'm super excited about it .  I am ALSO super overwhelmed by it, but that's life .  To people who don't live in the Western United States: I'm sorry .  It's hard to get away for more than a couple of weeks when you have SciShow and Crash Course and all the other projects and people that we need to keep happy and healthy here in Missoula .   I like making those things for the internet because everyone can have them no matter where you live, but if you ARE in the Western United States: lucky duck .  The rest of you - I'm here, on the internet, always .  Hope you like this song .  John, I'll see you on Tuesday .  
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday; I am hoooome !  Home is a nice place to be .  I missed you, slightly off-white bookshelf .   And you, Dutch nerdfighter shoes .   And I even missed you, probably mouse poop . So Hank I really liked your video about the Renaissance and circumstance and as I've been re-reading Behind the Beautiful Forevers for the nerdfighter book club--by the way, nerdfighters, don't forget to read this book by June 10th ! --anyway, I've been thinking a lot about luck and deserving what happens to you, probably in part because I feel especially undeserving   of all the nice things that are happening to me right now .  Like Hank, people keep congratulating me after they see The Fault in Our Stars movie as if I did anything, but all I did was get lucky .  Lucky that the book was published so well, lucky to have a great cover, lucky that the people I sold the movie rights to happened to be brilliant, lucky that the wonderful cast and crew and director came together to make a great movie . I mean Hank I didn't make savvy decisions in this process or anything; I just got lucky .  There are much, much better books that have been made into terrible, terrible movies .   But Hank of course the luck goes further back than that because I'm lucky to have you as a brother and collaborator .  I'm lucky that in 2007 you wrote a great song about Harry Potter that gave us a whole new audience .  I happened to be born into a rich country and I happened to be born male and white in a culture that privileges male-ness and white-ness .   And I write in English, Hank, which is a massive advantage, I mean YA writers writing in Latvian, even those far more talented than I am, rarely find broad audiences . Like Hank, all this Fault in Our Stars movie stuff is not happening because I am a good person; that's not the way the world works .   And I hope I can remember that because when you start to think that the good things that have happened to you have happened because you worked harder than other people, or because the universe prefers you, you start to see the world with this weird, self-centered myopia, and you don't commit yourself to lessening inequality or to supporting marginalized voices because you don't think there's a problem .  You start to think that the world is as it should be . Now obviously, this is very bad for other people, but I think ultimately it's also bad for you .  I don't mean you in particular, Hank, you're a very nice person, I mean like the hypothetical you .  Because there will come a day when awful and unjust things happen to you, and if you believe that you deserved the good things because you were oh-so-good, does that mean you now deserve the bad things ?  I would argue that in addition to not deserving all of the wonderful things that happen in life, we don't deserve all of the terrible things .  Like Hank, you don't deserve to have ulcerative colitis; that's not fair .  No one deserves chronic pain or dementia or poverty .  It's almost like  " deserving "  isn't the best way to imagine it .  So Hank I keep meaning to mention this, but over at Crash Course, we're about to teach a ten-episode series in Big History .  This is possible because of a grant from one of Bill Gates' organizations .  Basically we get to chart the history of the universe, from the Big Bang to, like, now .   And I bring this up because in Big History, we learn that 99 . 9% of matter in the Solar System was sucked up by the Sun as it formed .  Everything else: Jupiter, the Atlantic Ocean, my astonishingly diverse collection of Polo shirts, the probable mouse poop, all of that is the  . 1% .  In that context, everything in the solar system not burning inside the Sun is on the very far edge of the  " good fortune "  bell curve .  To me at least, Hank, it's not about deserving anything, because you are not your luck .  No matter your circumstances, you are valuable and rare and worthy of love .   And the great thing about humans, my favorite thing about humans, actually, is that we can work together to improve each other's chances of having healthy and productive lives .   And whether it's cancer research or the Project for Awesome or being kind to a stranger at Walmart, for me, that is the only real path to gratitude .  And I know that I'm saying this from an extremely privileged position, but I really believe that gratitude IS the proper response for the absolute astonishment of getting to be alive, and aware, and an essential part of this crazy, sprawling story . In short, Hank, I am very grateful to you and to all of nerdfighteria .  Hey, I wanna tell you about two books I really like .  I know that you're busy reading Behind the Beautiful Forevers, but !  Everything Leads to You by Nina LaCour and The Great Greene Heist by Varian Johnson, both excellent ! Now I'm gonna try to go track down that mouse .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  It's actually Saturday, but Tuesday-me will be on vacation so you're stuck with Saturday-me, a . k . a .  The-Fault-in-Our-Stars-movie-came-out-in-America-yesterday-me, a . k . a .  the tiredest me I have ever been .   So okay just briefly, at the moment it looks like The Fault in Our Stars is going to be the number one movie in America this week, beating out movies that cost like hundreds of millions of dollars to make .  The reviews have been amazing and according to Rotten Tomatoes, 93% of people who've seen it liked it, so just real quickly: YEEEEEEEEES !   Okay dramatic tonal shift, let's begin to talk about books that are not yet movies, but should be .  I'm speaking of course about Behind the Beautiful Forevers, the book that we're reading this summer in the Nerdfighter Book Club .  I wanna start our conversation about it today by talking about the first four chapters .  So in this book we meet a bunch of people who live in this slum in Mumbai called Annawadi .  Now those of us who don't live in slums tend to imagine those who do rather monolithically, but it slowly becomes clear that there's a lot of diversity in class and status in Annawadi .  Right, like the life of a malnourished garbage-picker Sunil is very different from the life of Ahmet who buys and sorts that garbage, and very different from Manju's life, who's aspiring to become the first resident of Annawadi to graduate from college .  So that's the first and easiest level of complexity that's added to our understanding of life in places like Annawadi .  Not all poverty is equal and not all people living in poverty are identical .   But it becomes much more complex, like we think of government corruption as a cause of poverty, right ?   And it often is .   But for Manju's mother Asha, it's also a way out of poverty .  We think of empowering women with loans from microfinance organizations to be an engine that can drive social and economic change in communities, and it can be .   But Asha hoards and abuses microfinance-loans in order to get ahead .  I should add here for all the Nerdfighters who give loans via Kiva, that that's why Kiva didn't work in India until very recently and now does so only with, like, crazy lots of restrictions .    But anyway, the complexity that's most striking to me is that we all think of funding schools as being good, and it is .   But Manju goes to a charity-funded college were one can graduate basically by reading CliffsNotes .  Although to be fair, that's also the case with some American universities .  For me, the brilliance of Behind the Beautiful Forevers is that it refuses to allow those of us who live in the rich world to hide behind shields like microfinance and charity .   In one of my favorite passages, a kid says,  " Everything around us is roses, and we're the shit in between .  "   Boo goes on to write about pink condominiums and glass offices shooting up all around Annawadi, a clear metaphor for the roses .  The implication here I think is that without manure, roses can't grow .  In order to have all of our inexpensive consumer goods, the rich need the poor, and we need them to stay poor .  That's a very discomforting thing to consider, but we shouldn't look away from it .   But then again, as Boo points out, almost no one living in Annawadi is actually poor, at least according to official definitions .   Sunil the garbage-collector may have to take puffs off of discarded cigarettes to ward of hunger pangs, but he still lives on more than $1 . 25 a day .    And when we say that a hundred million people have emerged from poverty in India in the last few decades, we're talking at least in part about residents of Annawadi .  By many measures, life is better for people living in Annawadi than it would be without global capitalism and this fantastic growth of the over-city .  This is a book that resists reductive readings .  No matter your ideology, it gets challenged .   Okay one last thing: it seems to me that in the first 100 pages, the greatest mover of the narrative is not like corruption or discrimination or ambition or any of that, but luck .  Or fate, I guess, depending on your worldview .   But I mean the chance of having your hand cut off while working as a kid at a recycling plant or having a bum heart or an alcoholic parent or being falsely accused of assault .  As Abduhl's father says,  " Your little boat goes west, and you congratulate yourself .  'What a navigator I am . '  And then the wind blows you east .  "   So Nerdfighters, I'm interested in what you took away from the first four chapters of Behind the Beautiful Forevers, but I also wanna know what you think of luck .   Like how do you make sense of a world where luck plays such a huge role in your triumphs and tragedies ?   Thanks for reading the book with me .  Hank, I will see you on Friday .  
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  As you can tell from the grey speckled walls behind me, I have found myself, in a stunning turn of events, in an airport .  I've actually been stuck in the airport for a couple hours, Hank, because my flight is delayed, and also because I love airports !   But anyway Hank, I've been thinking about The Art Assignment .  One Art Assignment in particular, Jace Clayton's The Quietest Place .  For those of you who don't know, The Art Assignment's a cool show produced by PBS about contemporary arts, starring my wife, and to a much lesser extent, myself . Jace's assignment was for us to take a walk until we found the quietest place within walking distance .   Right now I can hear two separate TVs and some children .    And quiet is an interesting thing to talk about on YouTube because attention has become so fractured on the internet that there is no longer room in YouTube videos for ANY silence .  Like Hank, I go back and I watch our videos from 2007 with the jump cuts that are really, really slow .   And this space between the jump cuts is just absolutely unbearable .   Like in those 3 silent frames, I think to myself,  " I might not survive until the end of this video .  "  And in the many hundreds of responses to Jace Clayton's Art Assignment I saw this again, and again .   People would be walking to their quietest places, as I am now, and they would talk the entire time .  It's only getting louder; this isn't working at all . The other thing I noticed, Hank, is that people's quietest places are incredibly loud .  Usually it was loud with nature sounds, which is fascinating, because it means on some level, and I think this is true, we don't think of nature sounds as being, like, sounds . We think of them as kind of a loud-quiet .  No, this won't work, I can still hear the TV . Anyway, it all made me think about on the internet, and maybe even outside of it, quiet can feel kind of discomforting .   Just to get even through a few seconds of quiet requires this intensity of focus that we're not used to having to summon . You know who knows the quietest place in an airport ?  TSA employees on a break . Okay, Hank, here we are, as far as I can tell, the quietest place in the entire Indianapolis International Airport, where by gate A4, the carpet looks like this, and now Hank, together, we are going to enjoy and/or suffer through a minute of silence together, alone with our thoughts .  I can hear so much more than I could when I sat down .   Hank, happy VidCon, I'll see you on Friday .   
JOHN: Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  So VidCon was fun - so fun, in fact, that I took hardly any video except for this   . JOHN: Hello, VidCon ! JOHN: Anyway, it was basically like that level of sensory input for 72 straight hours, but before VidCon, I was on a television program called  " The Colbert Report, "  which meant makeup . JOHN: So, I am completely, really, super-into getting my makeup done . MAKEUP ARTIST: You are ? JOHN: Have I told you this yet ? MAKEUP ARTIST  : No . JOHN: I'm John, by the way . MAKEUP ARTIST: John, I'm Bridget . JOHN:  And, yeah, I think - I had my makeup done on the whole - the whole time I was on the movie tour . BRIDGET: Okay . JOHN: Like, first thing in the morning, then they'd touch it up all day long . BRIDGET: Right . JOHN: I just looked so good .  I felt so good about myself .  JOHN: I'm not even kidding . BRIDGET  : That's awesome . JOHN  : So while Bridget does my makeup, Hank, a few makeup thoughts .  I confess that in high school, I was one of those guys who was like,  " You don't need to wear makeup .  You're beautiful just the way you are .  "  Meanwhile, of course, I was covering my body in carefully selected clothes every morning, showing that on some level, I did understand that humans generally don't present themselves in public  " just the way they are .  " Now obviously, TV makeup is different from everyday makeup, but here's what I like about makeup .  One, it feels good .  It feels good to touch your face gently and kindly .  Two, it's like really beautiful armor because it makes me feel more confident and, somehow, kind of protected as I go through my day .  It's sort of like wearing my favorite outfit, except I can do it every day . Three, Hank, as you know, I am a massive hypochondriac, so I don't like to touch my face because that's how disease spreads .   But I find that I actually touch my face less when I'm wearing makeup because my face is not, like, dry and itchy and et cetera . Four, I like the way I look .  It's pretty simple, actually .  Hank, when I was younger, I basically thought that women wore makeup for men, which speaks to a sick and very deep part of the patriarchy in which men imagine that women orient themselves toward attracting men, instead of having, like, meaning and pleasure inside their own lives that has nothing to do with dudes .  But when I wear makeup, I genuinely don't derive pleasure from thinking about how I'll look to people watching me on TV or whether it will make me more attractive to other people - I just like the way I look .  It makes me happy .  Now, of course, lots of people don't like wearing makeup, which is totally cool, but I do ! That noted, I'm probably not going to be wearing makeup on a daily basis, partly because I'm lazy, partly because I am tragically un-immune to social conventions, and partly because I've been totally spoiled by having my makeup done by amazing professionals like Bridget .  But this whole experience has made me a tremendous fan of makeup, and also of the YouTube makeup tutorial, so I put some links to my favorites in the doobly-doo .   And Hank, I also have to say that I think you are super-cool for having worn makeup in high school . Okay, now it's time for my big reveal ! JOHN: Do I look all right ?  Do I look like my regular self, but better ? SARA H: Mm-hmm .  Yeah . JOHN: Perfect . JOHN: Hank, congratulations on VidCon .  I hope you're getting some sleep .  I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  Henry requested today that I make a video about dragons and dinosaurs where they fight together against bad guys and there are scary parts, but not too many scary parts .   And I then explained to him that sadly I can only make videos where my head moves around a screen .   BUT if there are any brilliant video editors-slash-motion graphics artists out there in Nerdfighteria, please take this idea and run with it .     So, since I can't make a video with dinosaurs and dragons where they fight together against bad guys, I'm going to make a video about the future of Nerdfighteria .   So, Hank, every year we have this huge Nerdfighter gathering at VidCon and we talk about what's ahead for Nerdfighteria, and I thought I'd share some of the things that came out of that discussion .   One, we wanna do more IRL events .   Hank, you're on tour right now and you're having a great time; we wanna do more of that .   It's a bit difficult for me to travel right now because family, but a) we wanna do more Nerdfighter gatherings that we're a part of, and b) we wanna facilitate Nerdfighter gatherings that don't include us .   I mean, the Internet is great and everything, but nothing beats real life, I mean, except for the Internet, the Internet does beat real life, but real life is a close second .    Two, Hank, we wanna make educational video for younger people .   I don't think I'm allowed to say anything more about that just yet, but wouldn't it be great if elementary school students had video that got them excited about like, science and history and also gently introduce them to the idea that dragons and dinosaurs did not technically co-exist ?     Three, non-video educational materials to go with CrashCourse .   So, Hank, CrashCourse is used in thousands of schools, which is great, and we hear from lots of teachers and students that they would love, like, essays and primary sources and worksheets and other stuff to go with the videos .   Khan Academy has helped us out with that some, link in the doobly-doo, but we'd like to do much more of it in the coming year .     Four, decreasing worldsuck and increasing world awesome year-round .   So, Hank, the Project for Awesome is amazing .   Last December we raised more than 800,000 dollars for charity, but we'd like to do more of that stuff year-round .   Speaking of which, why am I wearing a Brazil jersey ?   Well, because with matching donations, Brazil fans have donated more than 16,000 dollars to Sarcoma research to win my World Cup affection .    And overall, Hank, that project has now raised more than 80,000 dollars for the Sarcoma Foundation, I mean, I do not need any more potassium today, because that is bananas .   Anyway, we wanna do more of this kinda stuff .     Five, advertising .   So, Hank, we've never run pre-roll ads on Vlogbrothers because we find pre-rolls annoying; instead, we have these display ads that are like, here, and e--I don't, I don't know, I'm not good with directions .    But now that pre-roll ads are like, 99% of YouTube's revenue, Vlogbrothers, I'm not allowed to say actual numbers, but it could generate like, five or six times more money than it currently does .  So, we're wondering a) if we should do that, and b) how ?   Here are some options: keep it like it is, delete ads entirely from Vlogbrothers, start using pre-rolls and donate all the money to the Foundation to Decrease Worldsuck, start using pre-rolls and put all the money into education and nerdfighter projects .   Like, Hank, many years ago, you bought Vi Hart a bunch of equipment so that she could make better videos more often .   That was super cool of you, but it also turned out to be like, the best $1,000 you ever spent, because Vi Hart went on to be this phenomenally successful educational creator .   So we could use the money to do way more stuff like that and plus fund other Nerdfighter projects, or we could do some combination thereof .     Nerdfighters, this is something we really wanna hear from you about, so there is a survey, link in the doobly-doo, where you can also talk to us about like, what you'd like to see from Crash Course and education content on YouTube in general .      And lastly, Hank, you know how we sponsor this amazing soccer team, AFC Wimbledon ?   Well, thanks to fans of the hankgames channel, we've been able to increase our sponsorship so that next season, we're gonna be on their shorts .   You heard me right, Hank, this design is going to be on the shorts of the actual AFC Wimbledon uniforms .    And, Hank, this also means that when you play as AFC Wimbledon in FIFA 15, you will see this on their computer shorts .   That's right, Nerdfighters, we did it .   We made it to FIFA !     So, Nerdfighters, those are some of our thoughts on the future of Nerdfighteria, please let us know where you'd like it to go in comments .   DFTBA !  Hank, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  Today's video is coming to you in three very special parts: business, exciting announcements, and mosquito-borne illnesses . Part one- business .  So Hank, in last week's video, I asked people if we should turn on pre-roll advertisements for Vlogbrothers, and then, if so, what we should do with that revenue .  Tens of thousands of people responded, Hank, and they voted overwhelmingly that we should turn on pre-rolls and that we should split the income between the Foundation to Decrease World Suck, and a fund that will help out educational video projects . So that's what we're going to do, and Nerdfighters, we will keep you up to date on how that money is spent .  By the way Hank, did you notice that I have a tan ?  I've been experimenting a little bit with outside, although I can't, in good faith, recommend it .  Also I've got some puff because I'm in control of my own haircut schedule for the first time in six months .  People in Hollywood have lots of opinions about how often you should get a haircut . Part two- exciting announcement .  Sooo I am going to East Africa with Bill Gates .  I am very excited about this trip, not only because I get to hang out with Bill Gates, but also because I get to meet a lot of people who are doing important work in health and agriculture .   And hopefully I'm going to learn a lot and make a bunch of videos .  But that brings me to part three- mosquito-borne illnesses .  The light keeps changing; it's like a 2007 Vlogbrothers video .  So Hank, as you know some of my anxiety problems center on physical health, and when my doctor was giving me the vaccines to get ready for this trip, he said  " You should read the CDC web pages about the places you'll be visiting " , and that was a terrible idea .  Because those websites are like,  " malaria mosquitoes bite mostly at night-time, while yellow fever mosquitoes bite primarily during the day, and West Nile mosquitoes bite at dawn and dusk .  "  And reading that stuff made me think I am going to a place where disease-ridden mosquitoes bite in shifts .  So I called my doctor and I was like,  " This doesn't seem safe at all " , and he said,  " You should read the Indiana State Department of Health webpage "  !  So I did, and in addition to having information about the West Nile virus, which I knew to be worried about, there was a warning about the Arbovirus virus, which I'd never even heard of .   And one about Chikungunya virus which I don't even know how to pronounce .  Hank, I don't want to be killed by something that I can't pronounce !  I think my doctor thought I would emerge from that experience less anxious, but quite the opposite .  Anyway Hank, all of this is just to say that I've recently become, I think, the only person in the history of the world to read the entire Indiana State Department of Health website . No, wait, I also had another point, which is that we have excellent healthcare facilities and information here in the United States .  We've got great infrastructure, the power very rarely goes off in health clinics, and all that stuff helps us to deal with mosquito-borne illnesses and other communicable diseases relatively effectively .   And I'm going to East Africa, Hank, to see how they've dramatically improved healthcare and reduced infant mortality in the last twenty years .   And also to see how much work there still is to be done and where we can help . I'm gonna make a bunch of videos, but they probably won't be uploaded during my trip, so in the meantime I'm going to make a video about Behind the Beautiful Forevers, the Nerdfighter Book Club pick for summer .  If you haven't read it, now's the time because A) it will make next week's video more enjoyable, and B) it's excellent .  It won the Pulitzer Prize, for God's sakes .   But anyway yeah, I will schedule that video to upload next Tuesday so that I don't get punished .  Speaking of punishments, Hank, you owe us one !  Nerdfighters, I need punishment suggestions for Hank in the comments . Hank, DFTBA, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . I was duly awed by your epic and encyclopedic rant about punishments .   And so, even though I still believe in my heart that I do not owe a punishment, I'm going to do one because data does not lie .  Well, sometimes it does, but it lies less than your heart .  That's what today's video is kind of about, actually . Okay, Hank, so my favorite character in this summer's Book Club pick,  " Behind the Beautiful Forevers " , is Sunil the twelve-year-old garbage picker who grew up in an orphanage, in fact we're told, " Though Sunil was not an orphan, he understood that phrases like 'AIDS orphan', and 'when I was the second hand woman to Mother Teresa' helped Sister Paulette, the nun who ran the Handmaids of the Blessed Trinity Children's Home, get money from foreigners .  " By the way, little recommendation, when you have a four-year-old child, don't take books to the beach . So anyway, that's the first mention of charity in Behind the Beautiful Forevers, and boy, is it complicated .  Sunil is a non-orphan in an orphanage, Sister Paulette lies to raise money, and we later read that when the orphanage collects clothes for the kids and then sells those clothes to pay for other stuff .  But while Sunil isn't an orphan, he does need the orphanage .  Plus, he learns to read while he's there .   And that's the kind of non-straightforward story about charities, both domestic and international, that we rarely hear, especially from charities themselves . Right, because they have to raise money, and telling people,  " Ah, we think this is going to go well, it isn't going to be perfect, but we suspect it will be a net-positive, although there's no way to know " , that's a terrible fundraising strategy .   But that's closer to the reality that we see in Behind the Beautiful Forevers, like the charity-administered school in Annawadi is taught by a teenager and definitely sub-standard .   And toward the end of the book we learn that many charity-administered schools are outright frauds .  When a new school opened in the Pink Temple by the sewage lake, many children gravitated to it .   But it closed as soon as the leader of the non-profit had taken enough pictures of children studying to secure government funds .  And then there are, like, collaborations between government and charity, which are also sometimes problematic .  Like, you'll remember that Annawadi's political representative who is super corrupt keeps getting public amenities, care of the charity World Vision .  You know, like public toilets and gutters etcetera, and that's all good stuff, but it's timed to the elections so that he can keep his power .  And so you could see it as these projects like further institutionalizing the corrupt power system, right .   But then again, good toilets are really important for public health .  It's complicated .  Hank, this is all particularly interesting to me right now because, as you watch this, I am in East Africa learning about some of the work that people there are doing with the help of the Gates Foundation .  Now, the situation in East Africa is vastly different from the situation in Annawadi, but around the world, including in our own neighborhoods, we need to look at what charities do and how well they do it . Hank, you don't want to be giving to charity simply because it makes you feel good or because it lessens some guilt that you have .  We want to actually decrease World Suck .  I apologize for splitting that infinitive but I felt that it was necessary .  When we talk about health and poverty, we are talking about incredibly complicated problems and yes, money can be misallocated, and it can be used to bolster corrupt regimes, but we have lots of data -- links in the doobly-doo -- showing that in the last twenty years, when people have access to the right resources and tools, they can transform the health and economic opportunities in their communities . Rising income, better food security, higher literacy rates, lower infant mortality -- those aren't anecdotes and they are real progress . Hank, one of the reasons I continue to reread  " Behind the Beautiful Forevers "  is that it doesn't contain any unambiguous victories .  Not for the characters, certainly, but also not for foreign aid or government spending or microfinance or charity .  Non-profit spending doesn't always work, partly because not all non-profits are equally effective and partly because no one succeeds all of the time .  I think when trying to figure out what does work, data is probably ultimately a better guide than anecdote .   But then again, data can also be manipulated .  Hank, we are either going to embrace complexity or we're going to be lying to ourselves .  That's what I took away from  " Behind the Beautiful Forevers "  . I look forward to reading your thoughts in comments when I return .  Hank, I hope to learn a lot this week, and I hope to listen a lot, but if I come home with straightforward answers and simple solutions, I am probably doing it wrong .  Okay Hank, although I will be very jet-lagged, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday . I'm sorry if this video's a little bit disjointed, the linings of my brain and spinal cord are inflamed, which is pretty uncomfortable . Okay, so last week I sent out a message saying that I was going to miss my Vlogbrothers video due to hospitalization, and then I went back to being in, like, the worst pain of my life .   And then, while I was staring at the ceiling begging for the pain to go away, the internet diagnosed me with Ebola . Like,  " John Green Ebola "  was a trending search on Twitter .  People I knew in real life texted me and were like,  " Do they know what it is yet ?  Is it confirmed ?  "  Then I was just like  " Barf, "  and I don't mean that figuratively .  So ten days before getting what turned out to be viral meningitis, I was in Ethiopia, which shares a continent with countries like Guinea and Sierra Leone where there is currently an Ebola outbreak .  Now, never mind that Ethiopia is as far from this outbreak as England is from Afghanistan . I had recently been on the same continent as Ebola, and now I was in the hospital, ergo Ebola .  Quick side note, Hank, Ebola is a very serious health crisis in West Africa, but more people are going to die of malaria today than have died from Ebola in the last ten years combined . So, anyway, Hank, when I went to the hospital the doctors were very concerned, I mean, I might have meningitis, or malaria, or typhoid, or dengue fever, all of which can be fatal .   But they weren't worried that I had Ebola . This is my point though, even if I had Ebola it wouldn't have been a big deal !  I mean, I guess, it would have been a big deal to me or my family .  It wouldn't have been a big deal from a public health perspective .  Like, here's what the news would have said,  " An American has contracted Ebola .  Shortly after returning from Africa, Ebola Johnnie went to Orlando, Florida and signed books for sixteen hundred people at a Harry Potter convention, all of whom are now veritably dripping with the disease .  "  But here's the thing, Hank, if I had somehow magically gotten Ebola in Ethiopia, which, to reiterate, is impossible, I wouldn't have given it to any of those sixteen hundred people at LeakyCon . For one thing, you aren't contagious if you aren't symptomatic, and also, I didn't share bodily fluids with any of those sixteen hundred people .  Call me old fashioned, Hank, but I like to keep bodily fluid sharing within my nuclear family . Ebola is spreading because it's often being treated in healthcare facilities with no running water or latex gloves, which makes sterilization functionally impossible .  Just having water and bleach would prevent a lot of these Ebola cases . This isn't some terrifying, uncontrollable superbug .  There's mounting evidence that there might be treatments or vaccines or both within a year .   But the most important thing  to remember, Hank, is that this outbreak is happening because of poor health infrastructure .  Hank, I think we're obsessed with Ebola partly because it's novel, partly because it's so fatal, but partly because most diseases endemic to the developing world seem Other . I mean, more than half a million people are going to die of malaria this year, but unlike Ebola, we don't think of malaria as a disease that's  " coming for us .  "  Whatever the hell  " us "  means . Now, of course, Ebola isn't coming for this vague  " us "  either .  It's not going to spread widely in the U . S .  or Europe .   But, regardless, when Americans try to make the Ebola outbreak about America, we do a great disservice to ourselves AND to the communities actually affected by this horrible disease . In Liberia and Guinea and Sierra Leone, health workers have to choose between abandoning their work and putting themselves and their kids at risk for Ebola .   And they have to make that choice because of inadequate infrastructure and supplies .  Addressing THAT problem instead of freaking out about the disease coming to whoever  " us "  is will actually reduce Ebola transmission .   And, in the process, it will also save many, many lives from malaria, and typhoid, and also meningitis .  Which brings me back to my infected brain lining . Hank, it turns out that I almost certainly got meningitis, not in Ethiopia, but in Florida .  Oh, Orlando, city of my youth, city of my inflamed meninges .  Hank, it's going to take a little bit for my meninges to completely de-itis .  So, I apologize if I'm not around as much in the coming weeks .   But, nerdfighters, thank you so much for putting stuff on your heads to cheer me up .  It really did the trick when I desperately needed it . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .  
Bill Gates: Good Morning Hank !  It's Tuesday ! John Green: Woke up very early in Addis Ababa a few weeks ago and began a long drive South .  Slums at the edge of the city gave way to  beautiful vistas and then the road worsened and I became a bobblehead until at last, we reached a rural healthcare center .  So Hank, here's a story I heard a lot in Ethiopia .  Traditionally, Ethiopian women haven't named their children for several months after they were born because the risk of losing the babies was just too high .   But lately, thanks to the astonishing drop in mortality rates due to smart aid and good government investment, Ethiopian women have begun to name their babies at birth .  It's a great story and it's one that tugs at the heartstrings and makes you want to open your wallet .  It's also - well, the truth turns out to be maybe less narratively interesting, but, in a way, more encouraging .  So the Ethiopian health care system is organized into tiers .  You begin with hospitals, but with more than 80% of people living in rural areas, the next level, the healthcare center is vital  .  Here there are lots of medications and vaccines, there's a lab technician who can diagnose parasites and operate this centrifuge .  Some healthcare centers even perform C-sections .  All this despite the fact that almost none of them have running water .  When I asked center manager, Abd Al-Kadir what he needed most he answered immediately - water . While we were there, I also met Bill Gates, the founder of Microsoft and Sue Desmond-Hellman, the CEO of the Gates Foundation .  To be honest with you Hank, I kind of assumed that Bill and Sue were visiting Ethiopia for like, a photo op .  but yeah, no, they were there to ask questions and lots of them -  to ask how the lab tech typed malaria without a particular type of microscope, which vaccines were stored in what quantities, how many workers were needed to run the center efficiently and so on .  .  .  And watching Bill and Sue gravitate away from cameras and toward health workers, it became clear to me that the Gates Foundation's fundamental principle, that all human lives have equal value isn't just rhetoric . So then I traveled to the next healthcare tier, the outpost where health extension workers like Utagazu, with a tenth grade education and a year of training, provide basic care in rural areas .  Utagazu showed me her well-organized medical records, the delivery room in which many babies are born and wall charts measuring vaccination rates .   But mostly, she and her coworkers were busy taking care of people, like this little boy was being tested for malaria with a pin-prick test that has dramatically improved diagnosis and treatment .  When he was found to be positive, the health extension workers could begin treatment immediately .  This little guy was extremely sick with diarrhea that was suspected to be a virus .  Diarrhea remains one of the leading causes of child death in Ethiopia, even though it is always almost survivable if kids can stay hydrated, so this boy went home with a rehydration solution that might well have saved his life .   And there is one last tier of the Ethiopian health care system, the women's health army .  My favorite army of all time !  These are volunteers who take maternal and infant care into their communities, talking about everything from family planning to how to get folic acid .  A member of the health army invited me into her home and showed me the map that she uses to keep track of who's sick, who's pregnant and who has a small child, and this is how, with limited resources, information and care travels the last few miles into rural communities .  Hank, I don't wanna minimize the amazing work that the Gates Foundation and other organizations are doing in Ethiopia, or the importance of technologies like the easy to read malaria tests or this amazing thermos that keeps vaccines cold for 50 days without electricity .  But the real heroes of Ethiopia's health successes are Ethiopian .  The women volunteering in their communities, health extension workers treating disease and compiling data, mothers fighting to keep their kids healthy despite the immense challenges of poverty .  Their progress has been real and should be celebrated, but there's also much to do .  Kids should not die of diarrhea or pneumonia  or malaria, and far too many still do .  So, about that naming at birth thing .  I asked these women about it and they all agreed that kids do get named at birth now which never used to happen .  Some said that it might be because child mortality is lower these days, but most felt that it was because now they have to fill out birth certificates .  That doesn't tug on the heartstrings in quite the same way, but in the end, it's maybe an even better sign because good health records are vital to good healthcare . In short Hank, when it comes to healthcare, heart warming narratives and boring bureaucracy are not always mutually exclusive .  Anyway, then I rode in a helicopter with Bill Gates which was terrifying and hilarious, and I will definitely tell you about it next week unless I get meningitis again or something .  .  . Hank, DFTBA, I will see you on Friday !                 
Good morning Hank .  It's Tuesday .  So, you recently made a video outside, and I was like,  " We have outside in Indiana .  "  So, yeah, here I am . One of my favorite words in English is  " mortification "  .  It's also one of my least favorite things to experience, and last week, I was well and truly mortified when I used the word  " hectacre " , like, 135 times in my video about agriculture in Ethiopia .  I said  " hectacre " , like, one who takes hec when in fact, I meant hectare, meaning one hundred ares, with are being a unit of measure that means one hundred square meters .  Now, admittedly, units measuring land area: not among my fields of expertise, but still, I was trying to share with people what I'd learned about how to make more food available to hungry people, but obviously, I knew absolutely nothing because hectacre ! Hank, I've only experienced real mortification a couple times in my adult life, like my first book signing after Looking for Alaska was published was only attended by two people .  Now, that was obviously concerning, but it wasn't really mortifying until I was halfway through my reading, and I read a sentence from the book that went,  " The only thing worse than having a party that no one attends is having a party attended by two vastly, deeply uninteresting people, "  thereby managing to insult the only two people nice enough to come to my signing . Then, a few years later, I was giving a talk to several hundred high school students, none of whom had any idea who I was, and I talked for forty-five minutes .  Everyone was laughing a lot .  They seemed to be having a great time, and then, finally, I was like,  " Are there any questions ?  "  at which point several dozen people raised their hands, which is very unusual, and I was like,  " Yeah, yes, do you have a question ?  "  and they were like,  " Yeah, Mr .  Green, are you aware that your fly is open ?  "  Now, Hank, to be clear, it wasn't that my zipper was down .  My fly was open .  Like, you could see my underwear .   And then, I was like,  " No, I wasn't aware that my fly was down .  "  I turned around, I zipped up my fly, I turned back around, and I was like,  " Are there any other questions ?  "  Silence . Wait, have I told that story in a Vlogbrothers video before ?  Now, I feel a little bit of mortification creeping in again .  Blergh .  I don't even know what's been in my own videos .  But anyway, back to hectacre .  So, Sarah was trying to comfort me and she was like,  " You know, nerdfighters don't care that much about this stuff .  They're so forgiving and nice .  It'll be fine, "  and she was also like,  " Now, no offense, but it's not like that many people outside of Nerdfighteria are going to see your video because, you know, it's about agricultural yields in the developing world .  It's not- it's not going to catch fire on Tumblr, "  and then, of course, within a day, Bill Gates, the head of The World Food Program, and the foreign minister of Ethiopia had all seen the video .  Now, they were all very nice about it, but you know that secretly, they were like,  " Hectacre ?  "  So, it's one thing to look like a grapefruit in front of Nerdfighteria, Hank; they've come to expect it, but Bill Gates ?  Mortifying . Now, when mortification is something that you're doing entirely to yourself, as it was in this instance, there can be something useful about it maybe, like I want to seem like the kind of person who knows a lot about agriculture or the kind of person who can get through a two-person book signing without alienating the audience, and mortification can be your ideas about yourself being challenged by the reality of yourself, and that's not such a bad thing, but when other people try to mortify you, when they say cruel things about you to make you feel embarrassed of yourself or when they read your diary or share pictures that you wish to remain private, that's very different .  I don't think anything is gained there, and a lot is lost .  Hank, I don't think any of us can navigate the world always having to be our public selves even when in private because I think we'd go mad .  Now, God knows I'll never say  " hectacre "  in a Vlogbrothers video again, but if I can't say it at home, I'm seriously kind of doomed because then I'd lose touch with my real and actual self, which, for all of us, is necessarily different from the selves we project in public .  We all act differently in private than we do in school or at our jobs or on Tumblr .  Now, Hank, I can't speak for everyone, but I for one wouldn't want to have to be on Tumblr all the time .  Well- no, no, no, because my kids don't have Tumblrs .  Yet . Anyway, Hank, if you've learned one thing from being my brother, I hope it is this: hectare !  Rhymes with nectar almost .  Rhymes with lecture .  Not really .  Those, by the way, are called slant rhymes, he said confidently, feeling a whisper of doubt .  I'll see you on Friday .  
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday; it's Question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real nerdfighters, let's get right to it . What's the cheesiest joke you know ? You know what kind of cheese can perform miracles ?  Cheesus of Nazareth . Who the eff is-Wait, wait !  I got a better one .  What happened after the French cheese factory exploded ?  There was debris   everywhere . You got any new books coming ? I'm trying . Hey, in TFIOS, did you name Isaac that because his eyes are sick ? No .  Unfortunately, I'm not that punny, except when it comes to cheese jokes .  I named Isaac after the guy in the Hebrew Bible who also went blind . How excited are you that the TFIOS DVD comes out tomorrow ? Good news, friend .  Tomorrow is now today, and I am very excited because, at last, people can see my brilliant acting in the extended cut . Will you ever appear in a movie of your books ? I have !  I had a cameo in The Fault in Our Stars movie, but it got cut, because my screen presence was too powerful .  They felt like people wouldn't be able to pay attention to Hazel's love affair with Augustus because they would be distracted by the camera's love affair with me . Any news about the Looking For Alaska or Paper Towns movies ? So I don't know much about Looking For Alaska, but Paper Towns looks like it is really really going to happen, like, they hired a director, the brilliant Jake Schreier who made Robot and Frank .  The screenplay by the guys who wrote TFIOS is amazing, my friend Nat Wolff is going to play Q, and supposedly it's going to come out on July 31, so I .  .  .  it might actually happen ! If you could change anything about your books, what would it be ? Uh, the word  " deadpan "  appears like twelve times in Looking for Alaska, which in retrospect is probably eleven times too many . How do I pass AP Chemistry ? Crash Course might help ! Who's your favorite Beatle ?  What color would you be if you could be any color ? I promise these were right next to each other in my timeline !  John, Green ! Are oranges named after orange, or is orange named after oranges ? The name of the fruit preceded the name of the color by at least two hundred years . Bananas or pineapple ? I guess we've reached the fruit portion of Question Tuesday .  Bananas ! Will there be a nerdfighter meet-up soon ? There are location-specific nerdfighter group all around the world, link in the doobly-doo, there are lots and lots of gatherings, I've always had a good time at them, check it out ! Why you love the metaphors ? I would argue that most humans love metaphors, because so much human thinking is symbolic .  Like, we imagine a meningitis headache as a  " vice gripping our head "  .   And if we can imagine, like, particularly original or compelling metaphors, it can help people to imagine what we're feeling !  So good metaphors make my experiences more real to you, and yours more real to me, which is kind of what language is supposed to do, right ? Can you make a metaphor using the word  " slay "  ? Now, this is not my area of expertise, but I'm pretty sure the colloquial use of the word  " slay "  is already metaphoric .  I mean, I don't think that new Taylor Swift song actually killed you .   But we say that it  " slayed "  us, because the experience of it was so awesome that now we are .  .  .  metaphorically dead .  I'm not saying it's a great metaphor, but it is a metaphor ! Pizza or Ansel Elgort ? Ansel Elgort on pizza . Ansel Elgort on pizza is not an acceptable answer . Hmm, then I'm going to go with Ansel Elgort slathered in pizza . Hey, review Hank's album . It's Hank Green's best album to date, The Perfect Strangers bring a punk rock energy to Hank's quick-witted and lyric-driven songwriting .  I give it five out of five stars .  It's actually Henry's second-favorite album, behind only the Phineas and Ferb Star Wars album . Aren't you and Hank supposed to do a punishment ? Well, I owe one .  Hank, what's my punishment ? How'd you decide on baby names ? We just stole our grandparents' names . How many boys are in One Direction ? What is this, a quiz show ?  There's Harry, and Niall, and Liam .  .  .  ah .  .  .  Zayn !  Four ?  Wait, NONE !  None !  There are no boys in One Direction, they are all adults ! Hey, how many books can you balance on your head ? S .  .  .  seven, but not for very long ! Tell your son he's really cute . Hey, Henry !  A stranger on the Internet says that you're cute . How do I get my three-year-old to eat anything other than PBJ, pizza, and macaroni ? You can get your three-year-old to eat three different foods ?  Are you a wizard ?  ! What colour - unnecessary  " u "  - are your socks ? Many-colored happy socks ! Are signed posters really signed, or just digitally ? When I say that something is signed, I mean that I signed it, like with my hand, and a pen . Writing font ? Arial . Thoughts on WheezyWaiter's latest video ? Awwwwww . Favorite HP book and movie ? Four comma eight . What's your favorite dinosaur ? Stegosaurus, because when I was a kid, paleontologists thought that it had two brains, a head brain and a butt brain .   And there was nothing in the world funnier to me than the idea of a butt brain . I have a question . Mmm .  .  .  that's not a question, Maureen, that's a statement .   And so is this:Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  So when I was in Ethiopia, I got to talk to this young girl, who's clinging to her brother, and I learned that her mom went to Kuwait to work, and her dad works in the city, so her grandpa takes care of them .  She told me that she missed her mom and that worried that her brother might have pneumonia, and the way this beautiful girl held her brother just shattered me, and eventually, I looked away .  In fact, a lot of my footage from Ethiopia is of me looking away; we drive up to the hospital past families desperate to get their loved ones good care, and I look away .  I turn the camera toward preterm babies struggling to survive under not good enough heat lamps, and then I turn away .    And then there was this little boy: too thin, very sick, life-threateningly sick, with diarrhea, who is the same age as my own son, who had the same sweet way of getting into a chair that's too big for him, while outside, his mother waited nervously for a diagnosis, for some help, and I looked away .  While she waited to find out if he had malaria, I filmed this beautiful vista . Now I think this was partly because even though these people all gave me permission to film them, these moments felt very private .   But it was also hard to watch, it's hard to see kids suffer, and mothers worry, and to feel powerless before it, and it's hard because these are problems that I was unaccustomed to, I mean the poor are voiceless in too much of our contemporary discourse .  This kid's mom doesn't have a Twitter or a Youtube channel .  And so we don't hear about her challenges as directly as we hear about others .  Maybe that's part of what makes it easier to look away too, but regardless, I kept doing it; I have hours of footage of my camera looking away .  I spent all this time in Ethiopia, and what I videotaped most was my shoes . I've talked before about how much there is to be excited about in Ethiopia - child death has dropped by more than two thirds in 20 years, and that's amazing !  As is the huge growth in school attendance rates, and the growing number of college graduates .  But Ethiopia is still one of the poorest countries in the world .  Malnutrition is common, and almost half of Ethiopians don't have access to clean water, which is probably why that boy was so sick in the first place . So I understand this urge to look away, but I think to change the world, we must grapple with it as we find it .  I wanna live in a world where children don't die of diarrhea and malaria, where they aren't malnourished, where they can drink clean water .   And the world I want to live in won't come about by me looking away . The problem, Hank, is that if we only look away, it's hard to listen, and it is through listening that we can learn how to actually help, rather than just imposing upon others OUR ideas for what they need . This woman - a member of the women's health army - told me that she has to walk miles twice a week to fill jerrycans with drinking water, and dirty river water is used for washing .  When I asked her what her community needed most, she answered immediately: water . Healthcare worker Abd Al-Qadir said the same, explaining that it was hard to deliver babies without water to keep everyone clean .  This healthcare outpost worker, these women, this grandfather -- they all cited water as among their most basic needs . So okay, let's not look away, let's listen .  I talked to water . org and they set up a fundraiser for the nerdfighter community .  All the money raised will go towards sustainable water solutions for people in Ethiopia, and if raise a $100,000 in the next 10 days, Bill Gates will personally match our donation, so every dollar we donate will count as two, and if reach our goal we can get safe water to 8,000 people . Now that's not a solution, Hank .  It's not gonna end poverty or childhood mortality, but it CAN change the lives of those 8,000 people, so if you can donate, please do at water . org/johngreen .  There's also a link in the dooblydoo . Hank, here's to trying to learn to listen, and not to look away .  I'll see you on Friday .                 
No notes, no script, what is this ?  2008 ?       Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  I really liked your 'Keeping It Real' video, so I decided that I am also going to try to keep it real today, for starters by using slang that was last popular before many of our viewers were born .  Also heads up, I got a little bit of the tiny chicken disease, so I'm coming to you today with my husky voice .  I feel like I could narrate a movie trailer right now like  " IN A WORLD WHERE A MAN HAS TWO CHILDREN WHO ARE ESSENTIALLY TINY CARRIERS OF VIRUSES .  "      So Hank, in the last couple of months I had this amazing trip to Ethiopia, which was so wonderful, I'm so grateful for the opportunity to have gone there .   And then I got meningitis which, like, less grateful for .   But anyway at some point in the last 6 months I started to kind of have a existential crisis .       Like, Hank, young people often ask me what they should do with their lives and I always say that's is a question wrongly put, because you don't just do one thing with your life .   But that's kind of a cop out because the honest answer is I don't know what to do with my own life, let alone what you should do with yours !  Like, we are here on Earth for a very brief period of time, and we have to use that time wisely, and I feel - oh God, it's coming again .    I meant both the cough and the existential crisis .  So yeah, I don't know .  Here's what I do know: I like writing books, and I like making stuff for, and with, Nerdfighters .  Like the experience of 'The Fault in Our Stars' movie was awesome, Hank, but it was mostly awesome because it felt like Hollywood was making like a $15 million present for Nerdfighteria .        And I think it's going to be the same way with the 'Paper Towns' movie, or even more so, but I'm really not that into Hollywood-y stuff; I just don't know what I should be doing .  Should I write a new book ?  I'm trying to write a new book .       Should I spend tremendous amounts of time ruminating about the terrible things that people say about me and my work on the internet ?  Probably not, but I do .       Should I be focused on mental_floss, or Crash Course, or the Art Assignment, or Vlogbrothers, or the all-important AFC Wimbledon Wimbly Wombly's ?   And in trying to do all of these things, am I doing none of them well ?       Now Hank, as you pointed out in your video, these are problems of extreme, extreme privilege, and I am grateful to have them, but I want to figure out how to be a good Nerdfighter and how to be part of a strong Nerdfighter community .        And before I get to your survey -- which, thank you for doing that survey -- in many ways, the community is incredibly strong, like, we just raised $300,000 for Water . org in Ethiopia .  That's more money than was raised by the first six Projects for Awesomes combined !      So, I don't want to be all doom and gloom about this; I just want to be honest about the fact that, like, I am stressed out right now and don't know what to do .  Like, Hank, it speaks to my current overall emotional well-being that when I saw the results of the survey about what Nerdfighters want us to do, and the first thing that they chose was to spend more time with our friends and family, I began to weep .  Because I know I should spend more time with my children, I mean, how else am I going to get all of these viruses except from them ?  After friends and family, you guys wanted us to help people understand current events which is something that we haven't been doing enough of lately, Hank, because it takes a lot of work and we are doing a lot of other things .   But that is good to know that that is a priority for the community .  Then you want us to raise money and attention for charities around the world . That is a hugely important part of our work, becoming a more important part, I think, so maybe we're good there .  Then: Crash Course which we spend a lot of time on, so: good .  By the way, in the coming months you might be seeing less of my face on Crash Course, but I will still be working a lot on it .   But my favorite result of this survey is that in dead-last is 'Making viral videos that get lots of views' .  So the thing that, like, metrics and business strategies would tell you to do is literally the least interesting thing to Nerdfighteria .  Which is good, because it is also not that interesting to me .  You also wanted us to do more stuff like make more Vlogbrothers videos and focus on science education .  Which is great, because it means that your values and our values still line up .  I do have one question, though .  I'm not gonna set up a survey or anything because I don't know how to do that, but, like, what would you like us to do less of ?  So I can write a book, and hopefully have more time to, like, be a Nerdfighter and try to build Nerdfightastic stuff within the community .       Nerdfighteria, thank you again for helping to raise more than $300,000 for Water . org, which is going to permanently transform the lives of more than 10,000 people in Ethiopia .   And most of all, thank you for sticking with us and helping us again and again and again to find our way .      Hank, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank .  It's Tuesday .  So yesterday some friends and I went to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, and I got to drive around the track with race car driver Sarah Fisher at 180 miles per hour and experience profound fear-joy, which would be a good name for a band .   But for now the relevant thing is while I was going around the track I felt like Sarah Fisher was driving the Batmobile and I was Robin .       And that reminded me that while I'm a big Sarah Fisher fan, I kind of hate Batman .      Like Hank, if I were a billionaire, the first thing I would do would be to pledge 90% of my money to charity .  Then I would build my own race track that Sarah Fisher could drive me around, then I would give AFC Wimbledon a bunch of money so they could build a new stadium .  Then I'd build a huge house with lots of secret rooms that you can only access by touching certain books on a fake bookshelf, and then I would still be SUPER rich because a billion dollars is a lot of money .  .  .  but I am getting slightly off topic here .       The point being, Hank, I don't think I'd be a particularly good or generous billionaire, but one thing I wouldn't do is spend a gajillion dollars developing a Batmobile that only I am allowed to drive .        I mean look Hank, Spiderman go bit by a radioactive spider; he has to be Spiderman; he doesn't have a choice; he can't stop shooting webs so you might as well use that skill to aid the police .        Similarly, Sailor Moon didn't choose to be an alien princess from Silver Millennium, but Batman is just a rich guy with an affinity for bats who's playing out his insane fantasy of single handedly ridding Gotham of crime; how is that heroic ?        Now I know what you're saying Hank- Iron Man- and fair enough, Tony Stark is a billionaire who could use his wealth a little bit better .   And that's a story unto itself about how the superheroes elevated by each generation say a lot about that generation .         But at least Iron Man has that weird nuclear bomb heart thing built with the help of the token good, and therefore doomed Arab guy .   And then he's like  " Aw I should use my nuclear heart for good .  "  It's not much but it's something .  Meanwhile can you really argue that Batman is good for Gotham ?  I mean in the Batman universe crime is caused by:     1 .  Evil people who just wanna see the world burn and     2 .  Stupid people who follow the evil but charismatic cat person/joker/penguin .    God, the villains in Batman are terrible .       Also, slightly off topic but I would argue that Catwoman despite her jewelry thieving etc .  is by almost any measure much more heroic than Batman .   But anyway, crime is not actually caused by evil; it's caused by systemic disenfranchisement and poverty and lack of access to job opportunities and education .        And yet Batman continues on, not funding police departments or schools or building low income housing, but tearing up the infrastructure of the city he claims to love while fighting villains who are only powerful because that city is already so blighted and dysfunctional .       I'm sorry I'm losing my temper, but does Batman understand how difficult it is for an under-funded city like Gotham to replace roads and bridges ?       Anyway Hank, it seems to me that one of the more realistic facets of the Batman saga is that Gotham never gets better for long after Batman's villain-destroying exploits .  Batman saves Gotham over and over and over again, but he never actually improves it .       Also, why does no one ever call Batman out for devoting all of his resources to fighting crime in Gotham ?  When he could also be fighting, I don't know, global poverty or habitat destruction or climate change .       Now Hank I'm not saying that cleaning up the streets of Gotham isn't a worthy goal for a billionaire, but to reiterate, he's bad at it .       I will say this, Hank, Batman has inspired some great graphic novels and some very good movies .        All of which go to extraordinary lengths to make it seem like bad things just keep happening to Batman, so he has to develop a massive arsenal that he keeps in a Batcave .         But Hank, the question at the core of the Batman story still bothers me .  Why do we celebrate the vigilantic ambitions of individual billionaires ?  Surely we understand that the real work among humans is done not in isolation but in collaboration ?  We do understand that, right ?         And no I am not just saying all of this because my hair looks more and more like Wolverine's by the day .      Hank, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .    Today's video is like A Song of Ice and Fire; it comes to you in three parts, unless its creator decides midway through to expand it dramatically .  Along the way, I'm going to update you on the Bank of Nerdfighteria, the unstoppable force that is AFC Wimbledon, the immovable object that is world suck, and a little something I did 10 years ago .  Oh my god, I am so old .     But let's delay the midlife crisis portion of the program, and start with part one: Batman .    So, pretty much everything I said about Batman in my last video, Hank, was either wrong or dramatically oversimplified .   And in the wake of that Hank, it occurred to me that being wrong is one of the most complicated pleasures I know of, because of course, initially, I felt defensive, and then very embarrassed .   But then I started to think about the fact that the way I look at the world can still be changed by the people I look at the world with, which is exciting because it means I'm not, like, finished .   And that's good news for an incredibly old person .    Part two .  Why am I wearing a suit ?  Oh, it must be time for the bank of Nerdfighteria's semi-annual report !   Hank, the bank of Nerdfighteria is like Tyler Oakley: it has two arms, the lending arm and the giving arm .   Let's start with the lending arm .  Over at Kiva . org, Nerdfighters have now loaned more than 4 . 5 million dollars to entrepreneurs in the developing world .  That's amazing; we're one of the biggest groups in Kiva's history, but the growth has been slowing down a little bit in the last couple month, so if you have 25 dollars or more that you can loan to a developing world entrepreneur, join the Kiva Nerdfighter group !  There's a link in the dooblydoo .  There's a 99% chance that you'll get payed back which is like a negative 1% interest rate savings account, which is basically the same interest rate as they're offering in banks .     Then there's part three: the giving arm .  So Hank, Nerdfighteria has an actual, like, federally sanctioned tax deductible called the Foundation to Decrease World Suck .  It gathers money mostly around the Project for Awesome and gives it all away to charities .   But this year, the Foundation to Decrease World Suck has been unusually active outside the P4A .  Like we raised over 300,000 dollars for Water . org's work in Ethiopia and over 90,000 dollars for sarcoma research during my silly World Cup fundraiser .   And right now, partly thanks to Nerdfighter projects like Minecrafteria, partly thanks to the fact that more Vlogbrothers income is going into the Foundation, we have about 45,000 dollars in the bank .  That's a great start - going into the Project for Awesome, we're in our best shape ever .    Part four: my suit isn't all business .  So Hank, I play FIFA as AFC Wimbledon, and then the ad revenue from Hankgames goes to sponsor the actual AFC Wimbledon .  They're this fourth tier English club formed by its fans after their club was stolen from them and moved to Milton Keynes .   And this year, our sponsorship has allowed us to be on their shorts !  I know what you're wondering: if the shorts are up here, what's down there ?  That's none of your business !  Anyway Hank, two weeks ago, MY AFC Wimbledon beat Milton Keynes; in a thrilling foreign four-nil victory, Bald John Green did the mustache of joy !   And then last week, the ACTUAL AFC Wimbledon played the ACTUAL Milton Keynes AND THE BALL COMES IN TO AKINFENWA !  AKINFENWA !  AKINFENWAAA !      And AFC Wimbledon emerged victorious as the crowd chanted  " Who were you, who were you, who were you when you were us .  "  Clearly Hank, having DFTBA on your shorts leads to athletic success .  Wait a second, why am I number 37 ?    It's because I am 37 years old, oh my god .     Which brings me nicely to part five .  So Hank, ten years ago today, I had just finished the last edits on this little boarding school novel I'd written .  My hope for it was that it would sell enough to make it to paperback .  It never crossed my mind that it would still be in print after ten years .   And I certainly never imagined that there would be this beautiful tenth anniversary edition with a cover designed by Rodrigo Corral .   And a big Q&A and a fancy introduction and a bunch of scenes from early drafts .   But that book has surprised me over and over again in the last ten years .  I want to thank everybody who's read it so generously and shared it .  Also if you want to get the tenth anniversary edition, there is a link in the dooblydoo to pre-order it .    Part six: Hank, you know how long ten years is ?  It's the difference between second grade and your senior year .  i don't want to panic, but Looking for Alaska came out ten years ago, which means that I am extremely very old .  I'm having a smidge of crisis about it, so old Nerdfighters if you have any advice, I would appreciate it .    Part seven: Hank, I saw you on freaking TV !   I was watching the Walking Dead and then AHHH IT'S HANK !  That advertisement was the scariest and most exciting part of the whole hour, which is really saying something .  So congratulations; it's fun to see you on TV !   But all things being equal, Hank, and I know you share this opinion, I'd rather see you on YouTube .  I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank; it's Tuesday . So in the 20th century about as many people died from smallpox as currently live in the United States of America .  I bring this up because I don't think it's irrational to be terrified of infectious diseases - they are terrifying .   But then again, for the rest of human history, no one will die from smallpox because we eradicated it .  Like the beginning of the Wikipedia page for smallpox is  " Smallpox WAS an infectious disease .  "  So don't underestimate humans when it comes to kicking microbial butt . Today I want to talk about Ebola and what shouldn't terrify us about it and also what should . So quick update: currently three people have contracted Ebola in the U . S .  Nigeria, which had twenty infections, was just declared Ebola free by the World Health Organization .  Good work Nigeria !   But there have been about ten thousand total reported cases in Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone .  Also we know that number is low because there is a lot of under-reporting .   And as this graph indicates, the rate of infection is not even beginning to level off - and that is terrifying . The current outbreak here in the United States is-is not terrifying .  For one thing infection controls are good enough that the disease won't spread widely .   And for another, the survival rate so far is over 80% thanks to excellent supportive care, whereas in West Africa it's closer to 30% .  But Hank as long as the outbreak is worsening in West Africa, there will be other outbreaks around the world regardless of whether we revoke the visas of people traveling from affected countries and regardless of whether every nation on Earth checks every international traveler for fever . Hank, microorganisms just aren't very well informed when it comes to the borders of nation states .   And if we're going to enjoy the many benefits of globalization - inexpensive Argentinian beef in our Big Macs, West African chocolate in our Hershey's Kisses, roses from Kenya, clothes from Bangladesh - if we're going to have all that stuff we're also going to live in a global health community . We like to imagine that deadly infectious diseases like cholera or malaria happen to other people, to like poor people who live far away from us .   But Ebola reminds us just how false that us/them dichotomy is .  Like better health care infrastructure in Liberia is not just good for the health and productivity of Liberians, it's also good for the health and productivity of all humans .   And then there's the non-Ebola effects of Ebola, like as Bill Gates has pointed out, the collapse of public health care systems in Sierra Leone and Liberia and Guinea has probably led to more deaths from non-Ebola causes than from Ebola .  Harvests are being affected as is every segment of these countries' economies, and we're probably at the beginning of the outbreak .  I mean the World Health Organization is estimating that by December, there could be between five and ten thousand new cases of Ebola per WEEK . Now Hank I understand the impulse to try to cut these countries off from the rest of the world .   But experts agree that will lead to more Ebola around the world, not less, as we've already seen from the insufficiently robust international response to the initial outbreak .  So what are we going to do ?  Well, the World Health Organization's current plan is 70-70-60 .  Although grammatically I would say that it's more sixty, seventy, seventy .  The idea is that within sixty days, seventy percent of Ebola patients will be isolated and seventy percent of burials will be safe .  That's going to require tremendous community outreach and lots more hospital beds which is going to be very expensive, like up to a billion dollars a month and also will require a lot of staff . The heroes of this story will be the people who build and run those clinics, and they will be American and Cuban and Botswanan, and there will be many, many West Africans who work together to isolate and treat Ebola patients .  That is hugely courageous work, and it is done on behalf of all humans .  It will eventually be effective, and the Ebola outbreak will eventually be contained but at a very high cost .  But Hank, I hope that we might learn from this disaster than when it comes to communicable diseases in today's world, threats to the health of any humans are threats to the health of all humans .  I'll see you on Friday .  
Ugghhh .  Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .   It's morning, but I still see the moon and that star that you're probably gonna tell me tomorrow is actually a planet .    Alright, it's a little bit later and I'm in a better mood now .  Plus I'm vlogging from the car; that always makes me happy .  So Hank, I really enjoyed your history of the Pizza John design, but it made me wonder about the history of pizza, and also the history of Johns .   We're gonna start with the history of pizza, but first we have to define what we mean when we talk about pizza .  I mean, we live in an age of cheeseless pizza, and sauceless pizza, and none pizza with left beef .    Now some people say that pizza is just like bread with toppings, and so they trace it back to Ancient Egypt and India and Greece .   But Hank, I think we all know that those people are wrong, I mean garlic naan is not pizza .  Banana bread is not pizza .  Pizza is bread and tomato sauce and cheese and possibly other .   And by that definition, the history of pizza becomes a lot more interesting, because for almost all of human history, pizza was impossible .  Pizza's central ingredients lived in entirely different worlds, Hank .  In the Americas, there were delicious tomatoes .   And in the rest of the world, there was wonderful cows' milk and bread .   But then, Christopher Columbus .  Now, Hank, as discussed in this video - and you will notice my excellent pointing skills .  Anyway, the exchange between the Americas and the rest of the world that began with Columbus, in the late fifteenth century, was disastrous for life on Earth in many, many ways .   But it did make pizza possible, and also like 90% of the foods that we now eat .  I mean, hamburgers and french fries ?  There were no cows in the New World, no potatoes in the Old World .  I mean, can you imagine going to a restaurant and being like,  " hey, can I have a hamburger and French fries ?  " , and them being like,  " Well, you can have french fries, but if you want the hamburger ,you're gonna have to leave the Americas "  .   Well, among the many New World foods that came to the Old World was tomatoes, which was initially believed to be poisonous, but it turns out that they are just dangerously delicious .   And by the middle of the sixteenth century, in Naples, Italy, we had pizza as we know it today, with cheese, and tomato sauce, and bread and possibly other .   But like most things, Hank, pizza didn't actually have an inventor, it had, like, millions of innovators .  Like, for instance, the pizza in sixteenth century Naples tasted very little like pizza as we know it today .  For one thing, it was sweet, like pizza literally means 'pie' .   So the story of pizza is really a story of, like, humans coming together over thousands of generations and across continents to invent the perfect food .   And that's what history is, really, Hank, it's not really about great individuals, it's this ongoing collaboration among the ninety six billion or so people who have lived here .   Alright, Johns !  John comes from the Hebrew name meaning 'God is gracious', and for, like, a thousand years it was the most popular name in England, until, like, I was born and then suddenly it became less popular .  I'm trying not to take that personally .  There's a few minor Johns in the Hebrew Bible, but the Johns really took off in the New Testament .  I don't want to brag, Hank, but there are no Hanks in the New Testament, and there's some pretty vital Johns .    Like, there's the itinerant preacher John the Baptist, Jesus' apostle John .  .  .  Historians disagree about whether there are other Johns in the Bible, and I'm going to steer clear of that argument because I'm no dummy !    But anyway Hank, the most interesting thing I learned in my research is that the name John is not the same name as the name Jonathan .  Jonathan comes from a different Hebrew word that means 'gift from God', and it's a longer form not of John, but of Nathan .    So there you have it Hank, a brief history of pizza and Johns .  It happens to be lunchtime .  You'll never guess what I'm having .  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Wednesday .  It is morning, but it is once again night-morning, as you can seee - oh look !  Jupiter ! All right Hank, it is nearly dawn in Roscoe, New York .  Readers of the book will likely know from the setting that it's a pretty serious day, so I don't think I'm gonna be messing around too much with Nat and Carr today .  Instead, let's talk about the Project for Awesome .  Hiiiiiiii !  So Hank, the Project for Awesome - Hiiiiii !   So - Hiiii ! so - Hiiii ! so Hiiii ! So Hank, the Project for Awesome is a -So Hank, the Project for Awesome is a hiiiii !  That's Nat Wolf, who plays Q in the movie, and, um, John Lennon, who plays Margo Roth Spiegelman .  I'm improvising now .    .  Heeey Macarena !  To the left !  One maca-two-maca-three-macarena, nanananana, heeey macarena ! Right !  So the Project for Awesome is an annual charity event in which the Nerdfighter community tries to decrease word suck and increase world awesome .  Uh, the Project for Awesome will be on December 12th and 13th, which is actually 4 days away from my birthday .  4 and 5 days away from my birthday .  When's your birthday ?  December 17th .  That's when the Project for Awesome usually is, but we had to move it because of the end - Because it's his birthday !  !  !  ! Yeah, it's my birthday ! Yeah, we gotta focus on Nat's birthday that day .  Yay ! Yeah, project for Nat .  I thought this change might be better received if it came from, you know, Nat and Carr - oh - this just got so weird .  I'm having such an unpleasant experience .  So we're moving the Project for Awesome to December 12th mostly because of the Paper Towns shoot but also because of Nat's birthday .  I'm sorry about that, but I, I really want to be part of it .   But Hank, we also want to talk to Nerdfighteria about maybe doing other things differently, beginning with comments .  So the Project for Awesome started out in 2007 with YouTubers making videos about, like, charity, instead of, you know, cats on Roombas or whatever .  This is back when people discovered YouTube videos primarily on, like, the  " Most Discussed Page "  or the  " Top Rated Page .  " Nerdfighteria came together to essentially hijack YouTube's algorithm .   And that was amazing, back when those pages existed .   But then, YouTube made comments progressively less important to discovery .  Basically, comments spamming just doesn't work anymore . I dunno where to vlog from so I think I'll go to this creepy abandoned building . So the other challenge that we have is that traditionally, 100% of the Project for Awesome's money goes to charities chosen by Nerdfighteria at projectforawesome . com . So this is a great system, but two things: first, it's hard to get, like, matching money from wealthy private donors .   And second, because we're all always so busy comment-spamming, I think that sometimes there isn't enough attention paid to the actual, like, voting for charities . So here is my proposal, and Nerdfighteria, I want your feedback about this, any new ideas you might have .  .  . The first day of the Project for Awesome, we raise money for three organizations that are known to be excellent and efficient when it comes to combating global poverty and disease .  This will allow us to get a lot of matching donations, like potentially hundreds of thousands of dollars, and also to decrease a known cause of world suck .  And then the second day of the Project for Awesome will be all about raising money for charities chosen by Nerdfighteria, and instead of comment-spamming, we'll have, like, meaningful discussions in comments of Project for Awesome videos . So to summarize, Hank, here is my proposal: December 12th and 13th instead of December 17th and 18th .  On December 12th, at noon Eastern, everyone who wants to uploads a video about a charity of their choice .  Members of the Nerdfighter community try to watch as many of those videos as possible, have substantive discussions in comments, and then all of Nerdfighteria votes carefully and thoughtfully for their favorite charities at projectforawesome . com . All of the money raised after the first day of the Project for Awesome will go to those charities, all of the money raised on the first day that are well-regarded in the field of global health and poverty .  And I can't decide if I should go in this door .  I kind of want to . Oh, it's a bathroom !  Oh, it's quite lovely . We've experimented a lot with the format and scope  of the Project for Awesome over the years but one thing has never changed: it is my favorite time of year to be a Nerdfighter, and I can promise you: this year, the perks are going to be amazing . I'm going to go back to the movie set, I will see you- this is the last time I get to say this, it's kind of a bummer- tomorrow .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  So I'm back on the set of the Paper Towns movie but over the last, like, 100 hours, you and me and the Katherine and both of our parents, uh, had norovirus, which is a virus with this amazing superpower .  It can make a human being stay on or near a toilet for, like, 12 to 24 hours .  Side-note, Hank: Why don't fictional characters ever get sick ?  Like why is Captain Ahab never like  " Uuuh, god, I've got the worst head cold and my throat is very scratchy and I just want to stay in my bunk but if I don't get up and try to find the white whale, human beings will never learn about nature's complete indifference to them, so I guess I'll go to work .  "  ?  Anyway, while I was horrifically ill, I kept on wondering who exactly was responsible for my norovirus .  The thing is, Hank, you get norovirus almost all the time by eating the poop of someone who already has it .  Now, you only have to eat, like,  . 00001 grams in order to get norovirus, but it is - I, I want to emphasize this: someone else's poop .  Now, the clear Patient Zero in our family is my daughter Alice; five days before Thanksgiving she awoke from a nap and promptly vomited all over her father, but I didn't get sick then .  I mention this only because it leads to the uncomfortable awareness that in all likelihood, all of us have eaten the poop of everyone we love .  I guess except if it's an Internet relationship .  Man, Internet friendships are the best !  The next time someone says to me, like  " Oh, your Internet friendships aren't real, "  I'll be like,  " Listen, if your construction of reality involves necessarily eating poop, then I'm going to stay right here in my land of fiction .  "  Anyway, this poop eating business is great stuff to think about when you're already extremely queasy from norovirus, but the other thing I kept thinking is that my beautiful one-year-old daughter whose poop started this whole Thanksgiving family catastrophe was going to be OK .  Like, norovirus is almost never fatal in kids in the U . S . , but around the world, it causes more than 200,000 child deaths per year .   And most of those kids die for want of clean water and oral re-hydration solution that costs, like, 50 cents .  Alice got PediaLyte, that's the only difference between,  " Haha, what a funny family Thanksgiving story, "  and the greatest personal disaster I can imagine .   And whatever Alice grows up to do - whatever any of us grow up to do - let's remember all those times that everything rested on 50 cents of PediaLyte or refrigerated penicillin or access to clean water .  Now, of course, the actual process of getting oral re-hydration solutions to the kids who need it is, like everything else in global health and poverty, fiendishly complicated, but I don't think we should let that complexity stand in our way or intimidate us .  Yes, it is hard, and yes, there are failures, but organizations from Save the Children to Water . org to countless local charities are helping to decrease child mortality .  Hank, I am in no way grateful for my brush with norovirus, but it's helpful to think about as we head into Project for Awesome season .  The world is a profoundly unjust place; it always has been and I imagine it always will be, but that doesn't absolve us of our responsibility to look directly at problems even when they are painful to look at and to try our best to do something to decrease world suck .  So Hank: I'm sorry that you ate Alice's poop, or possibly my poop; somebody's poop, anyway .   But here's to the hope of getting better, both individually and as a species .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .    .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Monday .  Special bonus video !  I am in my home -- actually, I won't be in my home by the time you watch this but I am right now .  It feels so good to be home with my family and my 2011 FA cup championship trophy .  .  .  and my fox hat and my copy of An Imperial Affliction that Hazel read in the TFIOS movie - it's not a real book, it's just a prop, it's the same four pages I wrote over and over and over again .    But mostly my family .  It's just very nice to be home for a couple of days .  In other news the Project for Awesome starts in five days, and Hank I want to make sure that everyone in Nerdfighteria is ready, hence the bonus video .   First, quick overview for new nerdfighters: the Project for Awesome is that annual 48-hour event where we raise lots of money for charity and also lots of people make videos about charity .  By the way, if you're going to make a Project for Awesome video, I highly suggest you watch this tutorial by Hank, about how to make a great P4A video .  As Hank points out, one of the ways of imagining a good Project for Awesome video is that it's a kind of advertisement for the charity you're trying to get people to vote for at projectforawesome . com .  If you're not going to make a Project for Awesome video, that's OK there are still tons of ways to participate !  You can watch and share Project for Awesome videos and the Project for Awesome livestream and of course you can vote for the charities you want the donated money to go to at projectforawesome . com .  Also, if you can afford it, I hope you'll consider donating via the Project for Awesome IndieGoGo where there will be some pretty awesome perks .  I want to thank everybody who's donated their time and effort on this front from Natalie Tran to Troye Sivan to all the nerdfighters who made the nerdfighter art perks, like these amazing French the Llama paintings .   There will be a lot of one-of-a-kind perks that you've never been able to get before and will never be able to get again, but more on that once the IndieGoGo starts .    And lastly, how to divide up the money .  So Hank, we asked for nerdfighteria's thoughts on this a few weeks ago .  The biggest concern that we heard was making sure that the Project for Awesome can still be a place where small charities get important funding .   So here's what we're going to try this year .  If you donate on or before Day 1 of the Project for Awesome, your money will be split between Save the Children and Partners in Health, two charities that nerdfighteria has worked with a lot for many years .   They're both rated extremely highly by sites that measure charity efficacy, and they both have great reputations around the world for doing good and efficient work to address poverty and disease .  So this will allow us to decrease world suck; also, it will allow us to at least, like, two hundred and fifty thousand dollars in matching donations, which is very good .   However, we're going to save a lot of the perks for Day 2 and after of the fundraiser, because that money will be split among charities chosen by nerdfighteria, which, if history is any indication, many of which will be small and will do a wide variety of kinds of world suck decreasing .   Again, those charities will be chosen by your votes at projectforawesome . com, so vote carefully and thoughtfully, so everyone can give however they would prefer; I'm going to probably give both ways .  You can do that too .   I know this seems like a huge info dump and I haven't even talked about the fact that there's gonna be a 48-hour livestream that never stops and is gonna be tons and tons of fun, featuring lots of your favorite YouTubers .  It's gonna be fun, if you're gonna make a video upload it noon Eastern Time on Friday .   Hank, in the meantime you will actually see me again tomorrow .  Hank, don't forget to be awesome .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday .  I have a flu-like illness, so you should prepare yourself for the worst vlogbrothers video ever .  To make it slightly more entertaining, I'm gonna play some Project for Awesome livestream highlights, so you don't have to look at my sick mug .  So, Hank, this whole thing started while Henry was giving me Sharpie face on Saturday morning during the Project for Awesome, and I felt a little tickle in my throat .  I thought it was Sharpie fumes, and, you know, maybe it was, maybe Sharpies caused my illness .   But, at any rate, yeah, now I'm miserably ill, which sucks, because there are only a few days left in the Paper Towns shoot, and I wanna be with those people because awesome things are happening today in a minivan .   But I also don't wanna get them sick because they still have to finish the movie .  More importantly, the Project for Awesome has raised over $1 . 2 million for charity, by far the most successful P4A of all time .  Nerdfighters, thanks to all of who donated, who made P4A videos, who watched them, and shared them, and commented, and watched the live show .  I don't know what you guys thought of this year's Project for Awesome  , but for me it was definitely the best one yet, at least until I was stuck by this terrible Sharpie illness . John-from-livestream: Cover it with Sharpie, yes !  Henry-from-livestream: No, I don't wanna cover it .  John-from-livestream: Oh, you don't wanna cover it .  Henry-from-livestream: If you cover it guess what .  John-from-livestream: What ?  Henry-from-livestream: You like .  .  .  get forehead disease . Oh, Henry you were so right to be worried about forehead diseases, which reminds me to thank my family for their patience and participation in this year's Project for Awesome, not least Sarah, who allowed herself to be covered in jelly .   And I should also mention that the Indiegogo is still live .  You can donate for the rest of today and today only, to get amazing perks, from a calendar featuring YouTubers before they were YouTubers, to the Project for Awesome exclusive edition of The Fault in Our Stars .  There's also original art by Minute Physics, An Imperial Affliction, P4A socks, pressed pennies, and so much more .  Donations are tax-deductible in the US, and all of your money after manufacturing costs and shipping goes to charities that are chosen by the Nerdfighter community at projectforawesome . com .  Ah, man, this reminds me of when #bananaeyes trended on Twitter .  Happier days, Hank, happier days . Sarah-from-livestream: Yay ! John-from-livestream: You look adorable .  How do I look ? Sarah-from-livestream: It's gross .  So Hank, the Foundation to Decrease Worldsuck works because there's no overhead .  Everyone who packs and ships perks at the DFTBA Records Warehouse volunteers their time, as does Sam Rudge, who does the website work, Karen Kavett, who designs it, Lauren Chernikov, and dozens of other people .  So to everyone who was part of this year's Project for Awesome, thank you, thank you .  We did it !  $1 million !  Actually like 200,000 more than a million .  Hank, here's a sentence I thought I would never say: you are the most beautiful mummy dancer the world has ever known .  I'll see you on Friday .   
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday .  The Paper Towns movie finished shooting a couple days ago so I am home .  I'm tired and a little bit sick, and as you can probably hear, my voice has been rode hard and put away wet, but I'm happy to be home and am so grateful to everybody who worked so hard on the Paper Towns movie . So Hank, this is a map of New York created by the General Drafting Company for the gas station ESSO .  I suppose I should explain for our younger viewers that this is essentially like a static version of Google Maps printed on a very large sheet of paper .  But anyway, this particular map is interesting because where-- wait, where are you ?  Ah !  There you are . So this map is kind of famous to cartography nerds and also to readers of Paper Towns because just north of a little town called Rockland, New York, it contains Agloe, New York . Agloe was a town made up by the two guys who created this map, Ernest G Alpers and Otto Lindbergh .  They took their initials together, mixed them up, and made Agloe .   And then they put their little fake town in the middle of nowhere, at the intersection of two dirt roads in the Catskills . They did this to protect their copyright .  Mapmakers have always created these little 'paper towns' or 'paper streets' so if they see them on someone else's map, they'll know that they've been robbed . Anyway, flash forward like forty years after the first General Drafting map with Agloe, New York on it, Rand McNally makes a map with Agloe, New York on it .  And when General Drafting calls Rand McNally to be like  " We're gonna sue you "  Rand McNally says,  " NONONONO !  Agloe is real !  " Because people kept going to that intersection of two dirt roads in the middle of nowhere, expecting a place called Agloe, someone built a place called Agloe .  Essentially, Hank, the story of Agloe, New York is the story of a fiction that became real . Now, I would argue that this happens to fictions and constructions all the time, like I remember one time in college I told one of my professors that things that are constructed aren't really real, and my professor was like,  " Well, this chair is constructed, but if I hit you with it, it is going to hurt .  " The truth is, Hank, the way we imagine the world does end up shaping reality .   And the book Paper Towns is about how we hurt ourselves and each other when we imagine other people as less than human or more than human .  But I guess what interests me most is the way that our incomplete imaginings of people and their incomplete imaginings of us end up shaping our lives really profoundly . So anyway, back in 2008 I published a story about how like the merely imagined can, in my opinion, become really real .   And then Agloe, New York, which had originally been fictional and then became real and then sort of fell into disrepair and disappeared again, kind of became real again . Readers started making pilgrimages to Agloe, they found the site of the former Agloe general store, one of them even made a fake historical marker which, I guess, come to think of it, is kind of a real historical marker ?  And then, six years later, largely thanks to readers continuing to care about Q and Margo and Agloe, people in Hollywood decided to make a movie, and it all became real again, in a way . I got to meet all of these people that I'd imagined and go inside of their houses and visit Agloe, New York with them . Hank, the journey of this to this has been the weirdest and most wonderful part of what has been a very weird and wonderful year for me, personally .  So I just wanted to take a second to thank everyone who's made Paper Towns real by virtue of reading it and, in turn, made Agloe real again . Of course, I know that Agloe will, again, cease to exist someday, as everything does .   But I think it's pretty cool that, together, we've made it real for awhile .  Thanks for that .  I can't even begin to explain what a gift it's been for me . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .  
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  I want to talk about racism today, but I'm already pretty nervous, because, one, I am definitely not an expert and, two, racism is big and complex and nuanced and the Internet -- god bless it -- doesn't really specialize in nuance .   But a bunch of recent surveys have shown that about seventy five percent of white Americans do not think that there is racial bias in the criminal justice system, and a slight majority of white Americans don't think that racism is a significant problem in America .   But so far as I can tell, Hank, whether systemic bias against African-Americans exists in the United States is not really a debatable point, so I want to look today at some data .  OK, let's begin with the criminal justice system .  So last year, the US Sentencing Commission released a report showing that African American men's prison sentences were, on average, twenty percent longer than white men's prison's sentences when they were convicted of similar crimes .   And in fact, in the past decade, the racial gap in sentencing has been widening .   Also, black people and white people use illegal drugs at almost identical rates, but black people are three times more likely to be arrested for drug possession .   Also, African Americans are far more likely to be stopped and searched by the police, at least in the jurisdictions that keep good records, even though, in many cases, the contraband hit rate -- the chance that an officer will find something actually illegal -- is higher among white people .  By the way, there's links about all this stuff in the dooblydoo .   But there's just so much, Hank, I mean, people convicted of crimes and then later exonerated by DNA evidence are disproportionately black .  Black kids are more likely to be tried as adults than white kids and more likely to be sentenced to life in prison, and even after release, black former inmates are less likely to get callbacks from potential employers than white former inmates, regardless of the crime committed .   Speaking of which, let's turn to the job market .  So one of the things that makes it so hard to isolate race when trying to study it is that so many other factors are at work in systemic injustice, right ?  Like, there's class and health and wealth, none of which are fully separable from race .   But -- OK, so a large 2004 University of Chicago study submitted thousands of resumes to a huge variety of employers, and all the resumes were completely identical -- except for the applicant's name .   It could be Emily or Brendan or Lakisha or Jamal, and Lakisha and Jamal got 50% fewer callbacks than Emily or Brendan, despite having literally identical resumes .  Hank, I'm pretty sure that's about race .   In fact, studies consistently show racial bias in employment and hiring in the US, and also around the world, but I only have four minutes so links in the dooblydoo !  In education, again, the evidence of systemic bias is pretty overwhelming .  For instance, in American high schools with mostly black and Latino students, only 74% offer Algebra II as a class; just 66% offer chemistry .  .  .  the percentages for mostly white schools are much higher .   When it comes to healthcare, you could write a book about racial bias, and in fact, people have, but I'll just quote from an American College of Physicians report from 2010: " Overwhelming evidence shows that racial and ethnic minorities are prone to poorer-quality healthcare than white Americans, even when factors such as insurance status are controlled .  "  And as the reports point out, by some measures, including life expectancy, which is really the ultimate measure, the disparity has been increasing for decades .   Now, Hank, I want to be clear that most of this research establishes correlations, which isn't the same thing as causation .  Like, certainly the tremendous economic inequality right now in the United States is a factor in racial disparities .   But then of course, race also factors into class and economic status .  Like, for instance, much of the racial wealth disparity in the US is due to inheritance: white people are far more likely to inherit money and land than black people are, and that's due in large part to the fact that for almost all of American history, it was basically impossible for African Americans to accrue wealth .  Now, Hank, I'm obviously just scratching the surface here, but to deny the existence of systemic racism is to deny a huge body of evidence indicating that racial bias affects almost every facet of American life .   Hank, the last thing I want to say is that, while I think statistics and data are really important, I also think it's important to listen to the voices of the people who have been affected by racism .  Data is cold in a way that humans are not, and to really understand these statistics, and their impact on the real lives of real people, we need to find ways to listen to those people .   Hank, I've put together a playlist and some links in the dooblydoo as a start .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Gooood morning Hank, it's Sunday .  Special bonus video !  So as you know, for the past couple of years Nerdfighteria has been sponsoring AFC Wimbledon, an actual professional soccer team in England .  They play in League 2, so called because it is the fourth tier of English soccer, and they're just an amazing club: they're owned by their fans, they were the first football club in England to take a stand against homophobia, and they worked their way up all the way from the bottom of the amateur ranks, the ninth tier of football, to being a full-time professional team .  It's an amazing story .   Anyway, Hank, this year we were able to increase the size of our sponsorship so we could actually get on their pants .  We are on the shorts of the actual AFC Wimbledon uniform !  There's even these awesome AFC Wimbledon scarves that have DFTBA on them -- by the way, these are back in stock at dftba . com, all the royalties go to the club -- and perhaps because they are constantly being reminded by their shorts not to forget to be awesome, AFC Wimbledon have had a great season this year, Hank . They're twelfth in their league, which sounds bad, but for a club that's owned not by a rich person but by a bunch of regular people, it's excellent .   And, in the big nationwide competition known as the F . A .  Cup, they have, for the first time, made it to round three, the round when, like, all the big teams enter the competition . So that means that AFC Wimbledon could have been drawn against Manchester United or Arsenal or Chelsea; they could have made more from one of those games than they make in twenty years of nerdfighter sponsorships .  Now, then again, they also could have been drawn against, like, Yeovil Town, so I was very nervous on the Paper Towns set when I was watching the draw come in .  And then, in the middle of a take of the movie, I shouted,  " Are you FRENCH THE LLAMA kidding me ?  !  " , and thereby ruined the take of the movie, because AFC Wimbledon had been drawn against .  .  .  Liverpool football club, the team that I have supported for my entire adult life . Hank, I know this sounds weird to people who don't care about sports, but Liverpool really has helped me through some of the hardest times in my life .  Hank, as you know, Liverpool is an embarrassingly large part of my life .  I mean, Hank, the day both my children came home from the hospital, I showed them Liverpool's Champions League Final victory over AC Milan because I wanted it to be the first thing they ever saw on a screen .  So the football club I love most in the world versus the football club that literally has DFTBA on their shorts .  What's a guy to do ?  Well, Hank, in my case, fly with the Yeti to London for the game -- in fact, we leave in about two hours . By the way, Hank, the game is on American television at 3 P . M .  Eastern on the cable network Fox Sports One .  So you can watch the game and, like, see the nerdfighter advertisements by the side of the field . If you're a nerdfighter who doesn't care about sports, and your parents just don't understand, this is a great opportunity to connect .  They'll be like,  " What is this strange cult that you're a part of that sponsors fourth-tier English soccer teams ?  "  and you'll be like,  " Ah, that's not even weird .  They're also trying to genetically engineer puppy-sized elephants .  " As for who I'm going to support, Hank, in the end I -- I looked way down deep into the darkness inside of me at my very core and what I saw there was a guy who really does intensely and irrationally care about the community that is Liverpool football club, but ultimately a guy who just has to root for the team with DFTBA on their shorts . Like, in some ways, the question is,  " What do you care about more, Liverpool or Nerdfighteria, as symbolized in this case by AFC Wimbledon, and then there's no contest !  Obviously, Nerdfighteria !  " Augh, but even so, Hank, I do not recommend divided loyalties .  It's extremely stressful . Now, of course, some of you argue that who I choose to support matters nothing to the actual game, and to you I say,  "  Well yes, but the sport also doesn't matter; it's just a bunch of people trying to kick a ball into a net .  "  We make it meaningful by caring about it .  That doesn't just go for sports; it goes for lots of stuff . OK, Hank, I have to go get on an airplane now so I can spend 14 hours in England .   And lastly, I just want to say a special thank you to everyone who watches the AFC Wimbledon Wimbly Womblys on hankgames, because you made this possible .  As it says on AFC Wimbledon's shorts, don't forget to be awesome .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . So Bill and Melinda Gates's annual letter just came out, and it really is my favorite letter of the year .  .  . with apologies to the birthday card I get every year from my insurance agent .  You should read the whole thing, link below .   But it predicts that in the next 15 years, the lives of the world's poorest people will become dramatically better . All right .  So even though hundreds of millions of people have emerged from absolute poverty in the last 25 years, and even though child mortality has been cut by half, and even though more kids than ever have access to vaccinations, we still kind of live in two worlds . In one world, fewer than 1% of kids die before the age of 5, almost no one gets malaria, very few children are denied access to vaccines because of lack of refrigeration, and serious malnutrition in children is extremely uncommon .  And then, we have the other world .  In that one, 1 . 5 million kids die every year from diseases that could be easily prevented by vaccines .  There are like 200 million cases of malaria every year, and more than 25% of kids are stunted due to malnutrition, which can lead to cognitive problems and all kinds of other health issues .  And in this world, kids are far less likely to go to school, or to learn how to read, especially if they're girls .   And all of that is totally unacceptable .  It's also unnecessary . So global child mortality has dropped by half in the last 25 years, and the Gates letter argues that in the next 15 years, it can drop by half again .   And this is achievable without expensive specialists or new medical procedures .  How ? First, breast feeding .  Infants who are breastfed for 6 months are 14 times more likely to survive .  Second, access to cheap injectable antibiotics, which could save 300,000 kids a year .  Then you've got inexpensive hand-pumped oxygen masks, which could prevent a third of infant deaths .  Fourth, drying the baby and offering skin-to-skin contact to keep it warm .   And lastly, keeping the umbilical cord free from infection .  This can actually be done with an ingredient found in my mouthwash .  Literally . Before moving on here, quick reminder that cutting infant mortality does not lead to population explosions in the long run .  In fact, quite the opposite . The Gates letter also talks about a bunch of other investments and innovations that will improve the lives of poor people, like access to mobile banking and better farming practices and online education tools .   And I just wanna imagine for a moment what that world would look like .  Enough food would be produced in Africa to feed every African .  The 2 . 5 billion people without a bank account would be able to save and dramatically simplify their economic lives with access to mobile banking .  Girls would have far better educational opportunities, dramatically reducing the gender gap in literacy .  Polio, river blindness, and guinea worm diseases that kill or disable tens of millions of people wouldn't even exist anymore .   And half the kids who are gonna die today would not die .  In short, the world's people would be healthier, and better educated, and more productive .   And that would be good for all of us, because here's the thing: we do not actually live in two worlds .  It sometimes feels like we do, not just because no one in my neighborhood has kids who are stunted due to malnutrition, but because no one I follow on Tumblr or Twitter or Instagram has kids who are .  Hank, the reach of my online life can feel infinite, but it isn't .   And that inevitably creates an empathy gap .  As Bill and Melinda put it in the letter, there is overwhelming evidence that people care about others who are suffering when they can see that suffering .   But too often we can't see it, not because people in the developing world are silent, but because we're not good at listening to them .  We're far better at listening to voices that feel closer, that we can find on Tumblr or Twitter--people who feel like  " us .  "   But the way we imagine us must include people living in poverty, because there is just the one world .   And when we start to pay attention to problems that seem distant and foreign, we often find that they actually aren't .  They're human problems; they're us problems .  Hank, I think the coolest thing about the Gates letter this year is that they give us the opportunity to learn to listen better and more broadly by signing up to be something they call a Global Citizen .  The idea is that if we become more informed about the issues facing people around the world, we will naturally become more engaged .  I think that's brilliant, and I hope it allows me, at least, to learn to listen better .  So I hope you'll join me in signing up, link in the doobley-doo . Hank, by the way, I also hope that we're still making videos in 15 years so we can discuss which of the Gates letter predictions came true and which didn't .  But before then--in fact, significantly before then--I will see you on Friday .                 
Goooood morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  It's Question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real nerdfighters .  It's actually the previous Friday, but I'm going on vacation, so if anything important has happened in the intervening four days that I'm not talking about it, it's because I don't know !  Let's get to the questions . Q: BEARD ?  !  A: Yeah, I'm kinda growing a beard .  I dunno, Sarah wants me to .  What do you think ?  Q: Why do none of the main characters in your books have siblings ? A: It's just my little way of letting Hank know that in my narrative imagination, he does not exist .  Q: Do you still have your Holden Caulfield hat ? A: You mean my people-hunting hat ?  Yes .  Q: Apples or oranges ? A: I don't know, I find it difficult to compare them . Q: In your book Looking for Alaska, was Alaska's 'blank' a 'blank' or a 'blank ? 'A: I don't know .  Also, that's not really the question for me .  The question is whether we can live hopeful and thoughtful lives in spite of ambiguity, in spite of the fact that important questions go unanswered . Q: Hey when's the Paper Towns movie come out ? A:There's an important question I will not leave unanswered, June fifth !  I just watched like ten minutes of the movie that Jake Schreier showed me when I was in Los Angeles and I'm so excited Hank !  Q: Do you have any productivity tips ? A: Yeah .  So first, procrastinate for a while .  Longer .  .  .  longer .  .  .  wait until you feel, like, that sour panic-adrenaline in the back of your throat and then GO GO GO GO GO GO GO !  That's a terrible productivity tip, but it's the only one I have . Q: How many licks does it take to get to the center of a Tootsie pop ? A: Between 115 and 500 and yes, there are studies about this .  Links in the dooblydoo .  Q: Favorite Art Assignment video ? A: Pretty fond of Christoph Niemann's emotional furniture .  I also really enjoyed the highlights video where I got to make some prints with Sarah .  Links in the dooblydoo . Q: Favorite song by Taylor Swift ? A: Probably Blank Space, or as Henry calls it,  " Boys Love Torture !  " Q: Hey, are you writing a new book ? A: Yeah, I'm .  .  I'm trying to ! Q:  But are you writing, really ?  Are you writing it ? A: Yes ! Q:  But ARE YOU WRITING A NEW BOOK ?  ! A: Uh, I'm just gonna level with you .  That's not helping ! Q: Do you have any advice for people who are engaged to be married ? A: The main thing that I'd say is that if you're doing it right, your marriage will be a lot longer and more important than your wedding, so don't stress out too much about the wedding . Q: Do you listen to rap music ? A: Yeah, actually Nat and Justice introduced me to a lot of artists I didn't previously know about while I was on the Paper Towns set, including Earl Sweatshirt, who I like a lot .   And then in turn I got to introduce all of them to The Mountain Goats, so it was a good trade .  Q: If Nerdfighteria became a sovereign nation, what would our national bird be ?   A: Great question !  I'm gonna say owls because they're renowned for their wisdom, they have, like, superpower hearing, and they can eat a mouse in a single bite .  Plus, you know, Hedwig .  So yeah, I think our national bird would be an owl, but I'm open to suggestions . Q: Do you get stopped at the grocery a lot more now that Hank is so famous ? A: So one time I was at a movie theater and I went up to the concessions and the woman working there was so excited and freaked out and she couldn't say anything for a few seconds and then finally she said,  " Oh man, this is so wild because I have a huge crush on your brother !  "  Oh man, you think it's hard for me, Hank, imagine what it's like for Dave Green . Q: Do you think all children should be vaccinated ? A: No !  Like, for instance, kids who are immunosuppressed because of leukemia shouldn't get some vaccines .   And there are some vaccines that infants shouldn't get .  That's precisely why- I mean, in addition to one's own health and the many pleasures of not getting measles- that the rest of us should get vaccinated ! Q: Can you anagram 'nerdfighters ? 'A: Yes, my favorite anagram for 'nerdfighters' is 'deft herrings,' although I'm also quite fond of 'frighten's red . ' Q: Favorite dinosaur ? A: Quetzalcoatlus ! Q: Favorite apostle ? A: John . Q: Current toothbrush color ? A: Green .  See what I did there ?  And lastly Hank, a nerdfighter asks,  " What should I name my pet rat ?  "  A: As far as I can tell, there's really only one choice, Master Splinter .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .  
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday .  I want to talk today about Boko Haram which was formed in Nigeria in 2002, but I want to begin in the year 1100-ish .      So Hank, we have this idea that Islam spread primarily through conquest, but in fact, in many places, including Sub-Saharan Africa, Islam spread primarily by trade .  So back in the year 1100-ish, leaders in what is now Northern Nigeria started to convert to Islam .  They were trading with North African Berbers and by the 18th century, most of the people in what is now Northern Nigeria and also what is now Southwestern Nigeria were Muslims .   But those Sub-Saharan African empires never spread to the rest of Southern Nigeria so those people were not Muslims .  Instead, in the 19th century, when a bunch of European missionaries showed up, many of those people in the rest of Southern Nigeria became Christians .  What is now Nigeria was colonized by the British for much of the 20th century, but Northern Nigeria was controlled by what's known as indirect rule .  Like the local emirs were allowed to run everything as long as they pledged allegiance to the British and also, paid them a portion of their money .  Now, as far as colonization goes, that seems like a pretty good deal, but also meant there was much less western-style education in Northern Nigeria than in Southern Nigeria which was much more directly ruled by the British .  So the south ended up with most of the doctors and the lawyers and the bureaucrats .  Also, all of the oil is in the south .      I should pause here to say that this is of course over simplifying .  There are hundreds of languages spoken in Nigeria and hundreds of different ethnic groups .  There are many Christians living in predominantly Muslim communities; many Muslims living in predominantly Christian communities .  So it's definitely not as simple as a divide between North and South, but there is a big gap there .      Ok Hank, so one of the many catastrophes of colonization is that it created borders that were convenient to Europeans, but not necessarily to the people who, like, lived in the actual places .  So in 1960, Nigeria gains independence which is awesome except it's never actually been, like, a unified political entity .       Hank, there's this famous moment in James Joyce's novel,  " Ulysses "  where Leopold Bloom is asked what a nation is, and Bloom answers,  " A nation is the same people living in the same place - or also living in different places .  "   But 1960, Nigeria was more like different people living in the same place which led to a bunch of coups and then, eventually, to a 1967 civil war .  Parts of Southern Nigeria seceded and became the Republic of Biafra .   And the rest of Nigeria was like,  " Wait, no .  We should be one Nigeria .  Also, all the oil is in your new country .  "  There was a huge civil war for two and a half years .  More than a million people died, but in the end, Nigeria won, and the Republic of Biafra ceased to exist, and the country was reunited .      So Nigeria today is a really interesting country .  It's split almost evenly between Christians and Muslims .  It has one of the fastest growing economies in the world and very little national debt .  It's the largest economy in Africa and the 20th largest in the world .  Their film industry generates 10 billion dollars in sales a year .   But it's also the last nation in Africa that still has polio, which is found only in the north, and life expectancy in Nigeria is 52 .  That's lower than it is in Somalia which doesn't even have a government .  In much of Northern Nigeria, fewer than half of kids even go to elementary school .  Female literacy is over 50% and while the country's overall economy grows over 8% a year, in the north, absolute poverty is actually increasing .      Hank, it's easy enough to say that religion is the problem here, right ?  Except there are a lot of Muslims living in the southwest of Nigeria where female literacy is over 90% and the economy is growing really well .  The problem is partly resource allegation .  Like, Nigeria's export economy is just a smidge dependent upon petroleum which is found almost exclusively in the south .   But there's also all these legacies of colonialism and indirect rule which means less effective federal governance in everything from education to the armed forces .       So this was the Northern Nigeria that saw Boko Haram emerge in 2002, a region disproportionately impoverished, uneducated, and poorly governed .  The words Boko Haram literally mean  " western education is forbidden "  .  The group was founded by a guy named Mohammed Yusuf who himself had a western-style education and spoke English .  Although he believed that the earth is flat and that rain is not caused by evaporation, so maybe it wasn't such a great education .  In 2002, he began recruiting unemployed young people into his movement, railing against official corruption, which is rampant, and also advocating for the creation of Islamic state .   But Boko Haram didn't actually become a military organization until Yusuf was arrested and then shortly thereafter, executed in 2009 .  Over a thousand people were killed in the riots that followed Mohammed Yusuf's execution, and after that, Boko Haram became increasingly militant and crazy .      I mean, this is an organization that claims they want to restore like righteousness and justice to Nigeria, but they fund themselves like primarily through drug trafficking and bank robbery .  In 2011, Boko Haram was behind Nigeria's first ever suicide bombing .  On Christmas of that year, they killed 41 people via bombings and shootings in churches .  In 2012, they killed at least 792 people .   And in 2013, they murdered nine women who were distributing polio vaccines .  Polio vaccines !  They also murdered 54 mostly Muslim college students while they were sleeping in their dorms .   And then, in 2014, Boko Haram got worldwide attention when they kidnapped 276 girls from inside of classrooms .  The attacks since then have only gotten worse .  On January 3rd of this year, they seized the town of Baga, burned it to the ground, murdered as many as 2000 people .   And now, Boko Haram controls the northeastern corner of Nigeria where they've instituted a version of sharia law so extreme that not only has the likes of it never been seen in Sub-Saharan Africa, but it's, like, too extreme for al-Qaeda .  They regularly massacre people who won't fight for them, and they've begun attacks in Niger and Chad and Cameroon .      Boko Haram still has an army between 7,000-10,000 people, and it's difficult to understand what those people are thinking, at least what the leaders are thinking .  I mean, they conscript a lot of people; they have a lot of child soldiers; they force preteen girls to be suicide bombers .   And it's hard to understand that evil .  Then again, I don't know if I need to understand it, but I do need to know about it .  I mean, not knowing about this stuff is really problematic, Hank, because one of the great tragedies of Boko Haram is that they have been allowed to grow for the last ten years because the Nigerian government and the world community haven't done a good enough job of noticing how terrible they are .  So I think it's really important to learn about Boko Haram and not let their atrocities go unnoticed, but I also think it's important to understand that literally 99 . 9% of Nigerians do not support Boko Haram .   And Hank, it's also important to remember that just a few days ago, two Muslim volunteers in a northern town sacrificed their lives to keep a Boko Haram suicide bomber from entering a city market where she would have killed hundreds of people .      Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  So after my video last week, a Nerdfighter posted this picture to twitter with the caption,  " Who wore it better, Tom Hanks in Castaway or John Green in Vlogbrothers ?  "  Also, someone in comments noted  " The puff seems to have migrated south for the winter .  "  So yeah, I trimmed my beard, okay . In other news, Hank, there is this line from my book Paper Towns,  " I'm in love with cities I've never been to and people I've never met, "  and that line has been quoted a lot over the years . I mean it pops up all the time on Tumblr .  It has over seventeen hundred likes on Goodreads . Now, it's no,  " If people were rain, I was a drizzle and she was a hurricane .  "  It's not even one of the most quoted lines from Paper Towns, but it's definitely sort of widely out there in the world .  There is even a poster available at dftba . com designed by Nerdfighter Risa . Now, Hank, to be totally honest with you, I don't remember writing the words  " I'm in love with the cities I've never been to and people I've never met "  but then again, I don't remember writing a lot of Paper Towns .  That book came out seven years ago . Sometimes I'd be on the set of the Paper Towns movie and I would be like,  " Why is this happening ?  "  and Jake Schreier, the director, would be like,  " Because it's in the book, "  and I'd be like,  " Oh yeah, right, how is the book anyway ?  Is it good ?  I hear there is a little bit too much Walt Whitman .  " So yeah, when I started seeing the quote a few years ago, I just assumed that it was in Paper Towns; people kept sourcing it as being from Paper Towns .  I suppose instead of blindly assuming I'd written something that the Internet said I wrote, I should've done some research, but, you know Hank, how many of us have failed to fact check something on the internet ?  Most I would think . Flash forward to last week when I come across a post on the copyright subreddit, and it's like,  " My friend wrote a thing on Tumblr that is now being attributed to John Green; in fact, like, they're selling a poster of it, "  and then at the end of the post she was like,  " You can just control-f and search for that quote in Paper Towns; it is not there .  "  So I did .  I illegally downloaded a pirated copy of my own novel, I hit control-f, I searched for the quote .  Sure enough -- not there . So Hank, it turns out  " I'm in love with cities I've never been and people I've never met, "  was written by a thirteen-year-old Nerdfighter several years ago .  On her Tumblr, she often quoted my books a lot and made art using quotes, and so someone, somewhere assumed that line was written by me, and then yeah . Now this poor young Nerdfighter, Melody, gets lots of hateful asks in her Tumblr inbox from people who are like,  " Why are you stealing John Green's quote ?  !  "  I stole it !  I am the thief ! So Hank, just to be clear, we've been selling a poster with a quotation attributed to me that was in fact written by a thirteen-year-old Nerdfighter . Now obviously Melody and Risa are going to share the royalties from that poster .  We're retroactively paying Melody for the posters we've sold so far, and also when I saw this artwork of Melody's I was like,  " I really like that; we should make that a poster at dftba . com, "  so now we have, it's available for pre-order .  All the royalties go to me, no, they go to Melody .  Now Hank, admittedly I'm a bit of a grapefruit for getting into this situation in the first place .  Like, this isn't the first time that a quotation has been misattributed to me . Like, there's that line from the series finale of the television program One Tree Hill that has been attributed to me like seven hundred thousand times on Tumblr, but I did not write that .  But I think a wrongly-attributed author, even a very grape-fruity one, failing to notice the misattribution in question, speaks to how screwed up credit and sourcing and copyright are on the internet .  We do an especially bad job of acknowledging one another's work and checking our sources . So Hank, there's my story of how I came to believe I'd written something I actually hadn't . Hopefully, we've gotten it right now, but I'm sure that somewhere, someone's copyright is still being violated in all of this, which reminds me to tell you, Hank, that starting soon over at Crash Course there will be an introduction to intellectual property and copyright law, which is a great interest to all of us who care about the internet and also like, art and the making of things, so you can check that out soon at Crash Course, and hopefully, together, we can get better at this stuff .  In the meantime, please support Risa and Nerdfighter, Melody by getting their posters . Hank, I will see you on Friday .  
Gooood morning Hank, it's Tuesday .      So, we're undergoing a pretty significant office reorganization project, and along the way I found a lot of documents from my past like, uh, this old picture of me .      Good news, little me .  Your braces are going to come off !  In six more years .      I also found this somewhat newer picture of me .  I'm not sure if this is a photograph, but it's definitely realistic .       And from 2006, my favorite fan mail ever,  " In regards to Looking For Alaska I can honestly say that after putting your book down I felt a feeling that I had not felt before .  It was not a sickness, like I was going to throw up .  Or a feeling like I had to take a crap or anything .   But I felt something .  "      Your book made me feel something, man .  Not the two main things I feel: the urges to defecate and vomit, but something new .       And Hank, I also found, from way back in 1994, some of my report cards .      This is from my junior year of high school, Hank .  I got a C- in Latin,  " John went into a tailspin in this course during the last 6 weeks .  He missed too many classes and seldom was prepared for the daily lesson .  "      Yeah, that's Latin; that's a dead language .  This is from my, uh, French - got a B- in French, not to brag .   " It's safe to say that John underachieved this year .  "  Hmm .      American history, I got a B,  " John managed to get to class more often during the final trimester, and his grade came up - a bit .  "  That wasn't necessary, to say  " A bit .  "  Could have just ended it at my grade came up .  It's technically accurate .      I got a C- in Pre-Calc, which frankly, was probably generous .  In chemistry, C .   And in English I got a, uh, C-,  " Incredible potential as an English student, but he's reached a juncture where he just can't mail it in anymore .  "      Hank, I don't talk much about what a terrible student I was in high school .  I think partly because I'm still embarrassed about it, 20 years later .  I did miss a lot of classes, you know, because they were early, or because they conflicted with my schedule of smoking cigarettes in the woods .       But even when I attended class, I was still a pretty terrible student .      Hank, you know how you become the third best C-student in the entire state of Alabama at academic decathlon ?  First by getting terrible grades so you're not an A or B student .       And that's who I was in high school .  I underachieved, and I skipped classes, and I didn't do my homework, and I didn't do the reading, and I was always behind and stressed out .  Meanwhile, Hank, you were getting great grades, and not smoking cigarettes, and then you'd get a scholarship to college and everything .      Anyway, Hank, coming across these report cards made me think a couple things .  The first is that I was incredibly lucky .  Like I didn't just get a second chance -- I got hundreds of chances .   And even though I was a crap student, I still had excellent teachers who continued to believe in me despite my not giving them a reason to .      The other thing these old report cards made me think about, Hank, was this: High school is not destiny .  It's part of life, but I feel like when you're in high school, people act like it's the most important thing you'll ever do, and like the whole course of your life is being decided .       But at least so far as I can tell, the course of your life isn't decided .  Ever .  Most of the time it's not like there's one fork in the road, and you choose one, or you choose the other .  There are hundreds of forks in the road every day that you're alive .      College is also not destiny .  For the record, I was a much better college student than I was a high school student .      Also your 20s are not destiny !  Your 30s are not destiny !  Like, destiny is not something that happens all at once .  It's something that happens only in retrospect .      Hank, when I was in high school, I thought I was just, kind of, a screw up .  You know ?       But in the end, Hank, people aren't just one thing .  Like I WAS a screw up, but I was also a pretty good reader .       And looking at those old report cards, I just want to thank my teachers for knowing that I wasn't just a screw up - even when I didn't know it .      Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .      So I recently discovered this box full of childhood memorabilia .  It hasn't been explored in at least 10 years, and today we're going to find out what's inside .      The first thing I notice when I open the box is this participant badge to a science and engineering fair .  I didn't finish first, I didn't finish second, or third, but I did participate .  Hank, the fact that mom and dad chose to keep my participant ribbon perhaps indicates why you're the brother who deconstructed an adding machine .      Here I have a  " mom and dad why did you ever let me buy those glasses ?  "  picture .      Photograph of me from my brief experimentation with contact lenses .       And a picture of me from back when I was the worst player on my childhood soccer team .      Alright what else ?  Oh Hank look !  Academic Decathlon Medals .  So Hank it looks like the rest of this box contains boxes .  When I was a kid I had a, uh, box collection ?   And by  " when I was a kid "  I mean until my early twenties .       Anyway, lets see if the boxes have anything in them .  This is a lovely box given to me by my college girlfriend .  It's empty, that's a metaphor .       This ones a winner .  Oh and there's stuff inside !   But sadly it's just more boxes .  Empty box .  Another empty box .  What childhood memories did you preserve John ?  Oh, I preserved memories of emptiness .      This box actually has something in it; it is a rose given to me by Betsy Hinckle, my tenth-grade home-coming dance date .  Oh my god there is also a tooth in there !  It is one of my baby teeth Hank, or at any rate, someone's baby teeth .      This box had some of my old cub scout patches in it from 1985 .       This box had a stamp from Germany inside of it .  Glad I chose to keep that .  This one's empty .  This one I can't figure out how to open, that's kind of exciting .  GAHHH !  It's empty .      This box just has a bunch of pennies in it .  I don't know why I chose to keep them .  You shouldn't even exist pennies !      I know what you're wondering Hank, what's in this box ?  You will never guess, unless you guessed boxes .      Alright Hank, last box, my most beloved box from childhood -- this real cigar box, let's see what's inside .  Oh, there's pictures .  There is actually something of value in here !  These are not pictures of me .  These are mostly picture of flowers .      Flower, flower .  .  .  No !  Oh, there's me, What am I doing ?  Am I eating a snake ?  That's the one Hank, that's the one picture of me I chose to keep .       Hank, down at the bottom beneath all of the boxes, was this beautiful book,  " Baby's milestones, birth to seven years "  filled out by our mom and dad .  There is like a little bracelet that Mom wore at the hospital .  Polaroid pictures of me just after birth .       Here are my foot prints, and here on this page, Hank, preserved for all time my Mom and Dad's first words about me my Mother said  " He's ugly "  exclamation point .   And my Dad said,  " He's so purple "  exclamation point .      Ah, to be fair I have seen a few newborns in my day .  They do tend towards the ugly and the purple .      So Hank, what have we learned from this trip down memory lane ?  Two things I think, first, put things in your boxes .   And secondly life is not so much about things as it is about people, and what we do together .      Hank, the amazing thing about that box of childhood memories is that you could go through the whole thing without ever knowing I had a brother .   And yet nonetheless it is completely impossible for me to imagine my life without you, you adding-machine deconstructing nerd .      Hank, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  As you can tell from the gray speckled walls behind me, I am in an airport, and as you can tell from my cold dead eyes, it's 5:42 in the morning .  Also, I forgot my camcorder, so I'm filming this on my phone .  I have a bunch of things to tell you, but I also wanna give you some travel tips, so I'm gonna intersperse them .       Thing One Hank, The Paper Towns Movie: they moved the release date; it is now coming out on July 24th .  That is the real date; it will really come out on that day, I think .  That's very good news, because it means that Jake and everybody will have time to actually finish the movie .  Also, there is going to be a trailer soon .  How soon ?  I can't tell you, but pretty soon .      Ok, travel tip: In almost every airport in the United States, there is a gate that is empty all the time .  In our case in Indianapolis, it's gate A3 .  This is where I come to make videoblogs, because there are no people here .  If you're at an airport, take the time to walk around and find the empty gate, because there are plugs, and chairs, and freedom .  Sadly that travel tip does not apply to people in Los Angeles, New York, Chicago, or Atlanta .       Thing Two, The Looking For Alaska movie: So Hank, my first book, Looking For Alaska, came out 10 years ago, and the movie rights have been owned ever since by Paramount .   But suddenly, it seems like a Looking For Alaska movie might actually happen, because the team has gotten back together .  The same screenwriters who wrote The Fault In Our Stars and Paper Towns, Scott Neustadter and Mike Weber are gonna be writing the script .   And the producers of both Fault In Our Stars and Paper Towns have joined in as well, so that is very exciting .       Travel Tip: So, this is the fancy airport lounge .  Don't pay to go to the airport lounge, it's never worth it .  You think there's gonna be like milk and honey and beds in there .  You know what they have ?  I'll tell you exactly what's in there .  Alcohol and cookies .  That's it, that's what you will find in the airport lounge .  So unless you really love to drink, or are Cookie Monster, there is no way that it's worth it .       If you want to go to a quiet, private place in the airport, don't go to the lounge, go to the chapel .  Almost every airport has a chapel, and they are always nice, and pleasant, and very quiet places .  Hank, I noticed most of my travel tips are like  " How do you get away from other travelers ?  "      Hank, the biggest movie news of all is that I have seen the Paper Towns movie, and it is great .  I'm just so psyched about it and so grateful to everyone who's working on it .  Hank, it's one thing to be faithful to a book's plot; it's another to be faithful to the themes of a book .   And I really feel like the Paper Towns movie is about learning to imagine others complexly, I'm just so psyched about it .  No spoilers, but I am psyched !       Final travel tip, Hank: When walking on the moving walkway, be very careful not to step on a crack, lest you break your mother's back .      Ok Hank, I have to go board .  Sorry about the iPhone video .  July 24th - Paper Towns movie !  I'll see you on Friday !                  
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  You'll never guess where I am .  .  . I'm in an airport ! I was last in this airport so recently that my log-in to the wireless hasn't expired . OK, so, yesterday, Subbable was acquired by Patreon; that was great news, and more great news: today is the publication day of Hold Me Closer, David Levithan's musical novel companion to the book we wrote together -- Will Grayson, Will Grayson . It's like the actual Tiny Cooper musical from Will Grayson, Will Grayson; it's fantastic .  And in even more great news: the Paper Towns trailer comes out on Thursday which is why I'm in the airport; because I have to go be on The Today Show .  Also, 100% of my current children have vomited on me in the past 24 hours, so I'm a little nervous that I might get a stomach bug and then throw up on The Today Show, which would be very problematic on a number of fronts, but especially, like, the GIFs ?  I just keep imagining the GIFs of me throwing up on Matt Lauer .  .  . Anyway, giving the forthcoming release of the trailer, I've been thinking a lot about the phrase  " Paper Towns "  .  Like in the book it means different things to Q, the narrator, at different points in the story .   But in real life, as you know Hank, the phrase  " Paper Towns "  is about copyright .  Like mapmakers create fictitious entries in their map to make sure that no one else is copying them .  Like if you put my fake place on your map, I know that you've stolen from me . Every map company does this, Hank .  Like Google Maps does it all the time; they probably created a paper town called Argleton in England .   But you see it all the time . It's usually not paper towns; it's usually like paper streets or paper bridges .  My favorite example of this aside from Agloe, New York   is Beatosu, Ohio, which is a town created by mapmakers who were fans of the University of Michigan's football team and wanted them to  " beat OSU .  "  But Hank, these copyright traps aren't just limited to mapmaking; you see them everywhere .  In encyclopedias, in dictionaries, in paleontology textbooks .  Like in Paper Towns, Margo's dog is named Myrna Mountweasel in honor of this fictitious entry from the New Columbia Encyclopedia about Lillian Virginia Mountweasel . The encyclopedia said that she was a fountain designer and photographer who died in an explosion while on assignment for Combustibles Magazine . I'm just totally fascinated by how much fictional information is floating around in the non-fictional world, you know ?  Like Google recently used fictitious entries against Bing .  The Billboard Charts have used them; but my favorite example comes from the New Oxford American Dictionary .  The word esquivesence .  .  . nope, it's esquivalence .  .  .  I'm sorry, sometimes I mix up my nonexistent words . Esquivalence or maybe it's esquivalience .  .  . it occurs to me that I have no idea how to pronounce this fictional word .  Anyway, it's defined as avoiding one's official responsibilities, you know, as a thieving lexicographer would .   And the crazy thing about esquivalience is that like Agloe, NY and many other fictitious entries, it has kind of become real .  Like it's in a bunch of dictionaries now, and the Apple dictionary even gives it a fictional etymology .  Now, like obviously this is an appealing idea for a writer because I need to believe that made-up stories can really matter in the lives of real people .   But it also reminds me that yes, obviously language shapes the dictionary, but the dictionary also shapes the language .  And Hank, I guess I kind of think it is the official responsibility of us as human beings to try to imagine the world around us as complexly and interestingly as we can .   And on that front at least, let us endeavor not to be esquivalient .  I hope you like the Paper Towns movie trailer; it comes out on Thursday .  I will see you on Friday !  
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday- what is this weird, non-airport background ?  Anyway, yesterday was the five year anniversary of the signing of the Affordable Care Act, widely known as Obamacare, which made me wonder if it's, ya'know, like, uh .  .  .  worked .      So here's the summary of what I found .  In the United States in 2009 more of my tax dollars went to healthcare than would if I lived in Japan, or the United Kingdom, or Australia, and in exchange for all of that money we did not get the universal health care that people in all of those countries enjoy .      Five years later, in 2014, we spent about the same percentage of our GDP on health care, and we still don't have universal health care but we do have less un-universal health care .      By the way, I'm going to oversimplify here a lot .  For better information, you should check out  " Healthcare Triage "  .       So here's how it worked in the halcyon, pre-Obamacare days of 2009: the government provided insurance to elderly people, through Medicare, and also to some poor people, through Medicaid .  Many other people got insurance through their jobs or paid for it themselves, but this still left a lot of people out: like there were 44 million people without insurance .      This was obviously a problem for those 44 million people, but it was also a problem for the rest of us because we did have a kind of universal healthcare in the United States: like when uninsured people got sick and went to the hospital, they did receive care and, if later, they couldn't pay for that care, those costs would be absorbed, either by the rest of us paying higher prices for healthcare, or else by taxes, because the government had to subsidize public hospitals .       But it wasn't really Universal Healthcare, because you can't, like, go into an emergency department and get your week's supply of insulin if you're diabetic .  So in the US we didn't, and still don't, have real universal Healthcare, we have, like, if-you-get-shot,-we-will-try-to-patch-that-up-for-you universal Healthcare .       And this system was astonishingly inefficient .  Like, we spent more than 17% of our total Gross Domestic Product on healthcare .  In countries like Canada and France and Australia and the Netherlands, they spend less than 10% of their GDP on healthcare, and they get similar, or in many cases better, health outcomes .      Also, back in 2009, insurers could deny you access to healthcare insurance if you had a  " pre-existing condition " : a phrase intentionally so broad that it encompassed, like, everything .  For instance, Henry Reich of  " Minute Physics "  was once denied insurance because he had the pre-existing condition of tinnitus, or ringing in his ear .       The only way to get around the pre-existing condition clause was if you worked for a big company, you could get insurance through them .   And that, of course, incentivized people to work for big companies when they might otherwise be doing different kinds of work, like .  .  . I don't know, making  " Minute Physics "  videos .      So, the Affordable Care Act sought to make the labor market less bananas; decrease health related bankruptcies, the number one cause of bankruptcy in the United States; and, ultimately, to insure those 44 million people without insurance, while, at the same time, over time decreasing the amount of money we spend on healthcare .       It was going to solve the access problem by creating these healthcare exchanges where private companies could compete for people's business, but they couldn't discriminate based on gender or pre-existing conditions .       The law also would expand Medicaid, which would get insurance to more poor people, and it required companies with more than 50 employees to provide affordable insurance to their employees, or else pay a gigantic penalty .       This would all be paid for, more than paid for, hopefully, by cost control measures .  These range from getting tougher on Medicare fraud, to incentivizing hospitals to keep elderly patients healthy so they don't get readmitted to the hospital .      There's also a new tax on, like, tanning salons, and an increase in the Medicare payroll tax for income over $250,000 a year .       But has it worked ?      YES - insofar as things are better than before .   And also .  .  . NO - insofar as we are nowhere close to a path to sustainable healthcare spending .      So the ACA was phased in slowly, and the real meat of it didn't get going until 2014 .  You'll recall the roll-out of the healthcare exchanges in late 2013 was .  .  . a complete disaster .  The website, healthcare . gov, was plagued with glitches and really just .  .  . didn't work .       Admittedly, buying private insurance in the US before the Obamacare exchanges was arguably even worse than healthcare . gov .   But it was just terrible .  I remember trying to sign up in those early months and it was truly awful .  What has not been widely reported is that, now, it's really easy .      In general, the exchanges now work very well and more than 12 million Americans, including me, have signed up for insurance through them .  Insurance premiums are going up, on average, more slowly than they did before the exchanges, and more insurers are participating, which means there will be more competition in the market .      Plus, the law is costing less than expected because fewer employers than expected have dropped fewer people than expected off their insurance .   And, it doesn't seem to be negatively affecting the job market .      It certainly led to more freedom in the labor market .  For instance, Sarah Green could leave her insurance-providing museum job to start an art show with PBS Digital .       And certainly for people who can get insurance now who couldn't before, either because of pre-existing conditions or because they couldn't afford without the government subsidies, the ACA is a really big deal .   And none of the collapse of the healthcare system or  " death panel "  predictions have come to pass .       Instead, uninsurance rates in the U . S .  have dropped dramatically, and early signs indicate that at least in some sectors the law is improving health .  By the way, sources for all this stuff in the doobly-doo .       On the other hand, many millions of people still don't have insurance and under-insurance, where people technically have insurance but still end up with medical bills they can't afford is a huge problem .        And while the growth of our healthcare costs has slowed, we still spend over 17 percent of our GDP on healthcare .  Most other developed countries spend far less than that and still have citizens who live longer and healthier lives than Americans .       And before you say that's because Americans eat or drink or smoke or whatever more than British people: no, that's simply not true !  Have you ever met an actual British person ?  I don't mean like Jack or Finn or Charlie, I mean a real one .       So yeah, if nothing changes, healthcare costs are still going to crush us in the long run, because the thing about the ACA is that it's not particularly radical .  Like, the 12 million people who got insurance through the exchanges, that's less than 4% of Americans .       For the vast majority of people, very little has changed, and that means that the underlying problems haven't really changed .  We spend way too much on healthcare, and we get too little in return .       To take that seriously would require radical change: government interventions like price controls, for instance .  Or a single-payer healthcare system, or a truly free market system where if you show up to the hospital with a gunshot wound and you can't pay for treatment, you don't get treatment .       So Hank, the old system definitely wasn't working, and the ACA is working, in so far as its job is to get health insurance to people who don't have it without disturbing the health insurance ecosystem for most people .       But the ACA didn't really replace an existing system so much as it grew on top of it .  Now the fact that so many insurers are bringing more plans to the exchanges indicates that probably the ACA will continue to work, unless the Supreme Court eviscerates it in a few months .       But the ACA has not and will not solve the long-term healthcare spending challenge that we face .  Neither, of course, would repealing the law, if anything the the healthcare spending problem was worse before Obamacare .  Rather than the endless discussions of repeal or defend we should be frank about the choices before us .       As healthcare economist and healthcare triage host Aaron Carroll told me, trade-offs are messy .  You can get reform more easily and more cleanly, but not necessarily while preserving the private market .  You can make healthcare cheaper, but not without imposing even more regulation .       You can insure more people and make it cost less for everyone, but not without spending more tax dollars .  Hank, healthcare policy experts across the political spectrum seem to acknowledge this complex reality .  It's our job now to make our politicians acknowledge it too .       Again, for more information and lots of other videos about healthcare, please check out Healthcare Triage .      Hank, thanks for reminding me last week about the many pleasures of being in a crowd, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  So we need to talk about your last Vlogbrothers video, and not the one where the Gregory Brothers song-ified our fight about Batman, the one before that where you talked about .  .  .  I actually don't remember what you talked about because I was too focused on this .  So Hank, Nerdfighter reviews of your new hair cut were universally positive, but then again, Nerdfighteria is a very supportive and loving community, whereas I am your brother .  Hank, in my my life I've had three major hair styles .  For about the past fifteen years I've had some variation of short on the sides, messy up top .  Before that, for many years I had a hair cut called  " The Junior Senator from Maryland "  and then of course there was my original hair cut  " Toad from Mario Kart .  "  Meanwhile Hank, your entire life you've had just the one hair style, which I call The Hank, I can't even describe the exact properties of The Hank to you because it just is .  It's like trying to describe water to a fish .   " The Hank "  is that which sits atop Hank's head .   And then suddenly, change !  Unannounced, radical change !  Now Hank as you know, I'm not a huge fan of change .  I just think change is tremendously overrated .  People are always like:  " Life is change !  "   And that's true, but you know what else is change ?  Death .   But Hank, your hairstyle change upset me particularly because it reminded me a little bit of Kennedy's haircut .  You know, the left-back of the AFC Wimbledon Wimbly Womblys, the fictional soccer team I play FIFA 14 with .  Now Hank I realize when it comes to hair I live in the glassiest of glass houses, but I've been throwing rocks at Kennedy's hair for years now .   And then, suddenly, my own brother adopts a version of The Kennedy .  Well Hank, this led to a bit of an existential crisis .  Now Hank, admittedly, these days it doesn't take much to point me in the direction of an existential crisis, but I started thinking about my brother, who is a real person in real life I really like, and then there's Kennedy, a very talented, but fictional, left-back who's technically made out of pixels .   But now in my head they're connected, so anything I say about Kennedy's hair I'm sort of implying about your hair .   And the whole thing just made me think about how nothing that happened in one's so called  " virtual life "  could ever be fully disconnected from what happens in your so called  " real life " , right ?  I think realness might be more of like a continuum than an actual thing, you know ?  Like ultimately, self-hood and relationships and experiences and FIFA playing and whatever else are varying degrees of real rather than simply real or not .  Like Hank, in my life there are two AFC Wimbledons, right ?  There are the AFC Wimbledon Wimbly Womblys, a fictional FIFA team who have worked their way up from League Two and are now enjoying their first season in the Premier League, and it's going great because Bald John Green and Other John Green, our two strikers, have found renewed form since the adoption of their baby boy JJ .   And that whole Wimbly Wombly world is to quote Severus Snape  " Real for Us " , us being the weird and lovely people who support the Wimbly Womblys .   And then we use the ad revenue from that series to sponsor the other AFC Wimbledon, you know, the real one .  That AFC Wimbledon is an actual professional Soccer team in England, but it started 13 years ago from nothing except a bunch of fans who had the idea to make a soccer team .  The fact that imagination and work can make ideas real is what finally resolved this existential crisis, because it's like the most beautiful and lovely thing about life to me .  The whole thing just made me want to support AFC Wimbledon more if we can, so I'm gonna try to do more video gaming stuff .  I've, started a Twitch TV channel, and even though I don't really know how it works I'm gonna try broadcasting today .  There's a link in the doobly-doo .  So basically Hank, your new haircut made me think about what's real and what's not real and how much I admire people like you and the founders of AFC Wimbledon for working so hard to make awesome things real .   And then I was like, you know what ?  I kind of like Hank's new haircut, which, by extension means that I guess now I kinda like Kennedy's haircut in FIFA .  This was a very weird Vlogbrothers video .  I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . So I watch a lot of children's movies, and I watch the same ones over and over and over again, so today I want to review a few from the perspective of an adult . Let's begin with The Lego Movie, a story about overcoming the creativity-stifling and life-sucking power of big business that was itself created by a very big business .  Not only that, but it's essentially a movie length commercial for a different big business . The Lego Movie's relationship with corporate America is just incredibly complicated, like the main character Emmet becomes part of this team that saves the world by building things as they go rather than following the instructions .  But of course these days Legos are all about following instructions, so it's kind of making fun of Legos ?   But then the Lego store is now selling kits with instructions on how to make the things that the characters in the movie make on the fly without instructions . It's all very meta, Hank, and you could certainly argue that corporate America's only critiquing itself to make itself look good so it can sell more goods and services, but whatever, it has a fantastic theme song; the movie is totally enjoyable so I forgive it everything . Then there's The Croods, which is a story of Caveman-Neanderthals who meet a human and learn from that human the importance of, like, innovation and risk taking and cooking your food over a fire . The Croods features a romance between a Neanderthal teenage girl and a human teenage boy, and while inter-species romance is disturbingly common in children's movies, it rarely involves like, you know, humans . Then again most of us have some Neanderthal DNA, so there really was human-on-Neanderthal action like 60,000 years ago .  So it's a historical reality; I'm just not used to children's movies sharing the message that it's okay for humans to fall in love with organisms outside their own species . Then there's Despicable Me 2, another favorite of Henry's, which is about a recently retired super-villain who has gotten into the jams and jellies business after adopting three adorable children . The interesting thing about Despicable Me 2 is that it's almost entirely about adult problems: like problems of fatherhood and dating and middle age and dealing with your tiny yellow minions once you don't want to be evil anymore .   But most of all, it's about, like, romantic love .   And that's a little weird because, like, 5 year old kids don't get romance .  But even so, Henry loved it, and at the end he told me that he wanted to marry mommy which I informed him was illegal .  Maybe you can date a Neanderthal, but you are not marrying mommy because that would be both bigamy and incest . Lastly, let's turn our attention to Penguins of Madagascar, which won my heart immediately because it begins with voice over from the great documentarian Werner Herzog . Penguins of Madagascar is about this group of zany penguins who break into Fort Knox because it contains the last vending machine that sells their favorite snack, Cheesy Dibbles . Then they get caught up with this shape-shifting villainous octopus named Dave who is resentful because humans have treated Dave poorly on account of how he's not cute . So Dave, driven by anger over not being cute, has invented this serum that turns penguins monstrously ugly and therefore will make humans uninterested in protecting them . So Hank, for at least the last 60 years, we've lived in a new geological period, the Anthropocene, in which humans are radically reshaping the planet . We can affect the atmosphere and the sea levels and the planet's overall level of biodiversity, and we can also choose which animals to value and protect .  And Dave the evil octopus is absolutely right that we are very biased toward, you know, the cute organisms .  So it seems to me Penguins of Madagascar is really about the Anthropocene as seen from a non-human perspective which is totally fascinating .  But unfortunately, they cast Dave as the villain, so it ends up being kind of a celebration of the cute instead of a critique of our aesthetics of cute . Still there's some really interesting ideas there, plus the hilarious Werner Herzog voice-over and some top notch Cheesy Dibble jokes, so all in all, I give the movie a thumbs up . So Hank, that's some of what you've been missing by not watching the same kids' movies over and over again: human-on-Neanderthal action, business making itself more likable by making fun of business, adult meditations on the challenges of finding love in middle age, and a glimpse into the massive changes wrought by the Anthropocene . In short Hank, the kids are alright .  I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday, and in a stunning turn of events I find myself .  .  .  in an airport .      Wardrobe change !  Hank, today's video comes to you in four very special parts .   Part one: your tour !      Hank, your tour seems to be going well .   I wish I was there, but you know what ?   I-I can't sing or play an instrument, so I would be kind of irrelevant .   Reviews of your tour so far include that it was  " so fun, "  that people had  " the best time ever, "   and that you are a  " surprisingly competent musician .  "   Which analysis I have to say I agree with, Hank .   I mean back in 2007 when you released your love song for Helen Hunt,  I had no idea that you could even play the guitar- let alone write and sing .    And watching that video my main feeling wasn't like  " oh this is a great song "  or anything, although it was, it was  " when did Hank get a guitar ?  "   So, yeah, Nerdfighters, if you're in any of these cities, go to Hank's tour .    Part two: Batman's Just a Rich Guy With an Affinity for Bats .     So Hank, when I showed our two competing shirt designs to Sarah, she laughed for like eight minutes and then finally said  " Why would anyone buy a shirt that says  " Batman's just a rich guy with an affinity for bats "  ?  "   So, yeah .   If I can't even convert my wife, I'm concerned about my ability to win this contest .    But both these shirts are available for pre-order until April, 25th and then they will never be available again .  .  .  .  I mean unless they are for some reason .   I don't know .   The future is unpredictable .      Part three: Why We're in the Airport .    So, Hank, Sarah and I are on our way to attend gala   or possibly a gala   .   Hold on .  According to the dictionary, both are acceptable .   It's like GIF and JIFF .   So, we're going to a gala   gala  - the word so fancy, they named it twice .   This gala   gala   is to celebrate the Time 100, Time magazine's list of the 100 most important people in the world .   Hank, you might remember that ridiculously last year, I-I was on that list .   This year I have apparently declined in importance, so didn't make the list, but I did snag an invite to the party !   I can't tell you how excited I am to have declined in significance, Hank .   Long may it continue .   This could save me the embarrassment of having to explain to other members of the Time 100 exactly why I was on the list- which happened a lot at last year's gala   gala   .   Rand Paul, or whatever, would be like  " Who are you exactly ?  "  and I would be like  " Oh, I'm the guy who popularized the phrase French the Llama "  and he would be like  " Yeah, that's not a thing .  "   This year, I don't have to do any of that stuff .   When people ask who I am, I'll just be like  " I'm Rand Paul's date .  "      Part four: Strange Marriages   Hank, your airport video about strange marriages reminded me of a strange marriage I just heard about .  .  .  or at least a strange engagement .  So, many years ago, Hank, in 2008 the first Nerdfighter gathering in Europe that I attended happened in Amsterdam .  There were like 30 or 40 Nerdfighters there and it was just kinda like a party !   And after it had been going on for about an hour a Dutch Nerdfighter I knew from her video series,  " Best Wishes from The Netherlands " , came up to me and she was like:  " Can you introduce us to the Belgian boys they have cute accents ?  "   And now 7 years later one of those Dutch girls- now woman- is marrying one of those Belgian boys-now man !  So congratulations to them .  .  .  I love it when Nerdfighter-like turns into Nerdfighter-love .  So Hank the weirdest part is that at any one of your concerts in the next couple of weeks like Nerdfighters could meet and fall in love and 7 years later get engaged !     Okay they just called my name for final boarding call, I, uhh, oh boy .  I've got like, my tux shoes and my backpack and everything is totally disorganized .  I hope I make it to the plane, I hope I make it to the plane .  .  .  .  .  MADE IT .     Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  I know that blank wall bothers you, I just can't think of what to do with it .  If I move the camera over here, there's too much light .  I guess I could just zoom in, but then my face looks weird .  I can do this angle; this is a nice angle for me, but it's a little nostrily .  I think I'm just going to go to the airport .  I know how to make videos there .   And here we are, Hank, I gotta tell you, my boundless enthusiasm for airports, it's a little bounded at the moment .  By the way, Hank, if you haven't noticed, I have completely stopped caring what the people in the airport think of me .  I live here now; this is my residence .       So, Hank, the question I'm asked most often these days is  " Will the Paper Towns movie be like the book ?  "  only I don't think they're saying it like that exactly, I think they're saying it more like,  " Will the Paper Towns movie be exactly like the book ?  !  " , or at least that's how I hear it in my head .  The answer is yes, the Paper Towns movie is like the book .   But also, you know, no it isn't .  So Hank, when I was a kid, I was really into novelizations .  Books that were adapted from TVs or movies I liked .  I was particularly into  " The Goonies "  novelization .       For those of you who haven't been blessed by the magic of  " The Goonies " , it was a movie about a bunch of kids who, to save their home, kind of like discover a pirate ship .  It's awesome !   And the thing I love so much about reading  " The Goonies "  novelization, was that it was like watching the movie in the sense that all the stuff that happened in the movie, happened inside my head .   But the novelization felt like fresh and exciting and new in a way that the movie couldn't, because I'd already see it like a gajillion times .       So, because I knew the movie so well, I noticed all the little changes in the novelization; like the novel is written from the first person point of view of one kid and that necessitated like some moving around of stuff and some changes in dialog .   And Hank, I loved that !  I loved trying to figure out why the writer had made changes to the movie in order to make the story work as text .       Images and sounds just kind of work on us differently than text does; like one of the things I love about text-based stories is that we sort of make them up with the writer .  Because the images that are described in the text only exist inside of my head while I'm reading .  Like Hank, my Harry Potter is different from your Harry Potter, and every other Harry Potter on the planet .  My Harry Potter is just mine .   But anyway, what I really want from an adaptation is to feel the feelings I felt while reading the book, right ?       And personally,  I'm willing to sacrifice a lot of plot points to make that happen, like when I wrote my own screenplay of  " Paper Towns "  many years ago, it was vastly different from the book .  Like Q ends up chasing after a different girl .  Also, there was an airplane crash; it was just bananas .  Anyway, all I wanted was to find a way to visually tell the story that when you put people on a pedestal, when you fail to imagine them complexly, it's tremendously destructive .       Now, it turns out that relentlessly focusing on theme instead of story telling is a bad strategy which is why that screenplay was so horrible, but the  " Paper Towns "  script that Mike Weber and Scott Neustadter wrote, the same guys who wrote  " The Fault in Our Stars "  screenplay, is just brilliant because it finds a way to capture both the story and the ideas .  At least for me, when I watched it, the story created the same feelings and the characters had the same relationships with each other, and the same failures to imagine each other, and also Santa, complexly .       That said, Hank, if you look for differences, you'll definitely find lots of them .  Like, for instance, there's no Sea World in the movie because no one was anxious to pay Sea World for the chance to give them good publicity .  Instead, the stuff that happens at Sea World in the book happens elsewhere in the movie .  Also, there's significantly less textual analysis of Walt Whitman in the movie, which I'm sure will be disappointing to many .  Don't worry, there's still some, though .       Also, there's some changes that I think are just better .  Like in the movie, the character Angela joins in on a road trip that she isn't part of in the book .   And I like that decision .  I wish I'd made it eight years ago .   And that's another thing I've learned from  " The Goonies "  novelization, Hank, changes are not necessarily for the worse .       In the end, I'd rather have  " Paper Towns "  be good than be faithful .   But I genuinely believe it is both .  So I'm just very grateful to the people who made it .  I feel very lucky .  Hank, your tour is done, congratulations !  I hope you sleep for like three straight days .   And then I hope you wake up, because you have to make a video on Friday .  I'll see you then .                 
Good morning Hank .  It's Tuesday .  Let me take this gauze out of my mouth .  Oh God .  I just had a pretty invasive oral surgery down here Hank .  Uh .  .  .  This is definitely the highest I've ever been when making a vlogbrothers video .  My mouth hurts so bad .  Hank, do you know the first time that I reference this pain that I still have was in my second vlogbrothers video in 2007 .  Hank as you know, I had surgery on my mouth a few weeks ago .  After they sewed my gum back into my mouth, my mouth tasted like cement and blood and burnt meat .  This is the 4th and most dramatic surgery that I've had and I gotta say that I have great care .  I have a great oral surgeon .  Great dentist .  So I really am confident that this is finally going to work .   But ugh chronic pain is just the worst .  The thing about physical pain Hank, is that it's almost inexpressible .  Like, uh, there's this great book,  " The Body in Pain "  by Elaine Scary, that talks about how like, pain doesn't just defy language, it kind of destroys language .  Like it's just impossible to use language to get other people to understand what your physical pain is like because your physical pain is always only yours .   But anyway, Hank, this particular surgery was necessitated because a metal rod had emerged from out of my gum, erupting from the skin and pressing against my lip .  That's the best that I can do to use language to describe how much it hurt .  Hank I'm sorry this video isn't funnier .  Oh, is that- oh it's dried blood .  That's nice .  That's a nice look for today .   But anyway Hank, in the last twenty four hours I've been thinking a lot about how lucky I am .  Like I have access to the best oral surgeons and the best dentists, so you know this suffering is just necessary .   But there's a lot of suffering that's completely unnecessary and my favorite thing about the Nerdfighter community is that we try to do stuff about that .  So anyway thinking about that let me just start a fundraiser over at Save the Children to help them out with their work with Syrian refugees .  Save the Children is doing amazing work to get kids in refugee camps access to healthcare and education and nutrition .  So yeah I started a fundraiser called Nerdfighters Opposed to Human Suffering Including but not Limited to John's Post-Operative Pain, which a Nerdfighter on Tumblr helpfully shortened to NOHSIbnLtJPOP, or as I like to call it  " No Sea Bin Lieutenant J-Pop .  "  Nerdfighters I will match all your donations up to $20,000 and I'm not just saying that because I'm high, I asked Sarah earlier if it was O . K .  and she said yes .  Hank the only thing I can really say about pain is that it sucks .  I don't think that it's romantic or transcendent or any of that .  I think it just sucks .   And I think where we can help alleviate it, we should .  So donate if you can .  If not to this fundraiser then to another .   And of course it's O . K .  if you can't donate as well .  You've gotta take care of yourself .  Alice needs me to read her an Elmo story so I gotta go, Hank .  I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday .  I liked the sixteen-ness of your Friday video so much that I'd do a sixteen part video of my own today .  Part 1: The intro .  Done !  Part 2: Our one week fundraiser for Save the Children's work with Syrian Refugees has raised over $15,000, which means $30,000 with matching, which is a lot of money and makes me feel better about the world in general and my post-operative mouth pain in particular, so thank you .  Part 3: Our podcast .  It's going to be called Dear Hank and John, or as I like to think of it, Dear John and Hank .  It'll feature us answering questions from nerdfighters and dispensing second rate advice and giving you the latest news from AFC Wimbledon and Mars .  Nerdfighters, if you want to send us a question or a problem, you can do so .  We're at hankandjohn@gmail . com .  Part 4: In the meanwhile, you can listen to the Tour Because Awesome Podcast, featuring Hank and his friends .  Link in the dooblydoo .  Part 5: Hank, last night I had this weird dream that my friend Hannah Hart was a professional trapeze artist working with a trapeze collective called  " The Flyerz "  with a 'z' .  No real story there, I just wanted to share that image with you .  Part 6: Hank, DFTBA Records has a new CEO Jo Garrett .  She's great and she's a nerdfighter, and she's gonna help DFTBA Records get people awesome stuff in a timely manner .  I'm so bad at counting .  What part are we on ?  I don't even know .  Part 5 ?  I'm gonna say Part  .  .  . 7 .  Rosianna is here !  Hank, we have stolen Rosianna Halse away from her native land of England and brought her here to the United States with a fancy visa .  I can't yet reveal to you the full awesomeness of this, but soon .  Anyway, part 8: Nerdfighteria sponsored AFC Wimbledon are going to stay in League 2 again which is great news !  They finished the season in 15th, so they are still a full-time professional team, and if you play the next FIFA game, you can still be AFC Wimbledon and see our shorts in video game form .  We also have some of these awesome Nerdfighteria Wimbledon scarfs still available at dftba . com -- link in the dooblydoo .  Part 9: In case you're wondering why I'm in front of this white wall, new video background coming soon .  Part 10: Over at hankgames, I'm currently taking a moral journey through the video game  " Grand Theft Auto, "  exploring the question of whether people truly wield power or the will to power ultimately wields people .  Also, how do you play this game without running over people's feet ?  Part 11: Bank of Nerdfighteria update .  So Hank, ad revenue from this channel Vlogbrothers gets split in half between the Foundation to Decrease Worldsuck, Nerdfighteria's charity, and a fund that sponsors educational content online like  " Physics Girl "  and  " The Financial Diet .  "  So far, for this year, the Foundation to Decrease Worldsuck has raised about $40,000, mostly from people watching ads on Vlogbrothers, so thank you for ingesting all of that advertising .   But we've also gotten a bunch of money from  " Tab for a Cause, "  a browser extension that allows you to make money for charity just by surfing the web .  Really does work, it was built by Nerdfighters, there is a link in the dooblydoo .  Part 12: If you are a teacher or a student who uses CrashCourse in school your life is about to get better because thanks to Bill Gates we are building curricular materials around the videos like lesson plans, and primary sources, and other stuff that I don't understand very well because I am not an educator .   But look for that stuff rolling out before the new school year .  Part 13: The Paper Towns movie .  Hank, the Paper Towns movie comes out in like 56 days in the United States, It comes out at different times at different places .  Why ?  I don't know the movie business is strange, but I will be traveling around the world to support the release of the Paper Towns movie at least going to Brazil and the United Kingdom, and also probably some other places .  I hope I'll get to meet lots of nerdfighters .  Part 14: July 24th is not just the release date of Paper Towns; it's also the first day of VidCon .  Oh that should be a relaxing day .  Anyway VidCon tickets are probably gonna sell out in the next couple of weeks, so don't get mad at me for not saying anything about how they were about to sell out because I just said something !  Part 15: Oh my god, I can't believe the Paper Towns movie comes out in less than two months, it makes me feel that weird fear/excitement/strangly-throat thing .  you know that thing ?  .  I have a complicated relationship with that feeling, Hank, but all things considered I would recommend it over mouth pain .  Part 16: The outro .  Hank, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  So you made a fifteen part video that I responded to with a sixteen part video because I thought your video had sixteen parts .   And then you made another fifteen part video .  So here are sixteen things I love about being outside . Now Hank, as you know I am a long time opponent of outside .  Our ancestors made extraordinary sacrifices for millennia to create inside .   And then we just dishonor all of that work by willfully going outside .   But that noted, there is a lot I like about being outside .  Beginning with the irregularly shaped polygons that the sky forms through the trees .  I love daddy long legs .  How is a creature like you even real ?  This honeysuckle tree is invasive and horrible but I love the way it bends toward the light .  I love the mighty White River here in Indianapolis .  So Hank, Indianapolis was created by politicians who wanted to put the capitol city of Indiana in the geographical middle of Indiana .   And they were like  " Oh that place looks good it's on the banks of the mighty White River .   And that was important in the early nineteenth century, you had to be on some kind of navigable waterway to like, get stuff to your town .   But it turns out, that in many places the White River is like six inches deep, which is how Indianapolis came to be the largest American city not on a navigable waterway !  I love geese and their little goslings, I also love Ryan Gosling but that's a different video .  I love that downy woodpecker that's in there somewhere .  I love turtles .  Bye turtle !  Sorry if I scared you .  I love flowers .  Contemporary flowers are like a collaboration among humans and plants and bees .  Boy, Hank do we need to collaborate better with plants and bees .  I love bubbles and they're just not the same inside .  I love peeing outside .  For the record I'm not doing it right now .  I'm just saying I love that feeling, it's like  " I too am an animal !  "  I love like weird swamps that feel undiscovered, they make me feel like an explorer .  I love snails .  Also, while I have great admiration for the hardworking chemistry majors in the artificial smell business, there's nothing quite like the actual smell of outside .  I know I'm starting to sound like the nature enthusiasts I've always reviled but these leaves just smell so good !  I just got a mosquito bite on my cheek and now I probably have West Nile virus so thanks mosquitoes, for reminding me what I don't love about outside .  I love how like when I'm looking for coyotes and great blue herons and all that kind of stuff sometimes I'll just see Henry and he'll be like  " Dad, Dad, Dad, look at this moss !  !  "  He and Alice always remind me that with the right level of attentiveness, everything is amazing .  I love tiny little trees .  The forest is big and mostly without light and you probably won't make it, tiny little tree, but I wish you luck !  I love trees that lean out over the water .  They're doomed but they keep going .  I guess most of what I like about nature Hank, is its ability to go on, no matter what .  I find that quite inspirational .  I'll see you on Friday .    Oh .  Gah, ruined a perfectly good outro, this guy .  Stupid nature always tripping me .  
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . I'm just back from a crazy and beautiful and exhausting trip to Brazil in support of Ciudades de Papel, and I will talk more about that later, but for now, I want to talk about Greece . So Hank, as you know, I was the third best economist among all C students at the Alabama state academic decathlon in 1994, but even a professional like myself does not know how the economic crisis in Greece should or will end . So I'm not gonna try to offer solutions today; I'm just gonna try to understand the problem and how we came to a place so desperate that the news media has created the horrific compound word  " Grexit .  " So Greece is a country in southern Europe: you know, the Acropolis, Socrates, Hipacea, the movie  " 300, "  et cetera, and until 2001, its currency was the drachma, which probably meant  " handful, "  because three thousand years ago, a  " drachma "  was a handful of six metal sticks that were used as currency .  Flash forward a bit to 1832: Greece becomes an independent nation and brings back the drachma .   But then, in 2001, Greece joined the Eurozone, along with all of these countries, and began using the Euro as its currency . The euro has been great, insofar as it facilitates trade, but nineteen countries sharing a currency has its problems .  Like one of the reasons this crisis has been so confounding is that Greece's monetary policy - how much money they can print - is controlled by the European Central Bank, but Greece's fiscal policy - how much money they can spend and where they spend it - is mostly controlled by the Greek government . Now, Greece and other Eurozone countries are supposed to follow some basic fiscal rules like no more than three percent annual budget deficits, for instance, but many Eurozone countries, including Greece, have broken those rules . Speaking of which, since the mid 1990s, the Greek government had been reporting deficits and debts that were much lower than the actual deficits and debts .   And then every time a new government got elected, they would be like  " wow, the previous government was not telling the whole truth about deficits " , and then that new government would proceed to not tell the whole truth about deficits .  And then in 2009, a newly elected government announced that the budget deficit that year would be 13 . 9% of total economic output and that the numbers had been fudged for some previous years . How did it get so bad ?  Well, that depends on who you ask .  Some people point out that Greece's labor costs got much higher after joining the Eurozone .  They probably had too much debt to start, there was a huge problem with tax evasion in Greece, and when the 2008 US recession became global, Greece was disproportionately affected because two of its biggest industries are shipping and tourism, neither of which fare particularly well in recessions .  Now, I wanna emphasize that it's not always bad for a government to run a deficit, if that deficit can be invested in ways that grow the economy and increase the tax base, it will increase government revenue, it's a virtuous cycle . For instance, the United States has a strong economy, and we've been running a deficit quite consistently for fifty years .  But Greece's situation is different .  They've been able to borrow money at low interest rates ever since joining the euro, because people figured they were a safe bet, right ?  The euro is safe .   But with these revelations in 2009 that Greece's deficits were so high, investors started to get nervous, and they started to ask for higher and higher interest rates in exchange for loans .  Greece needed that money so it had to accept the higher interest rates, which made its deficit problem worse, which made the interest rates go up--that's a vicious cycle . Okay Hank, so by the spring of 2010, the problem had become so bad that a younger and more promising version of myself discussed it in a Vlogbrothers video .  Also it was so bad that the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund came to Greece's aid with a 110 billion euro bailout .  The European Central Bank also helped out by buying some Greek debt, and giving Greek banks access to capital, and these three institutions came to be known as  " the troika "  . Now this all may seem very generous of Europe and the IMF, but one, it was a loan, not a gift, and two, back then the Eurozone was feeling contagion jitters .  Interest rates were also starting to creep up in Portugal and Ireland and Spain .   And there was a real fear that the whole Eurozone might fall apart and that would be disastrous for trade and would also lead to a big worldwide recession . Furthermore, most of Greece's debt was owed to German and French banks .  So in a way, the governments of the biggest countries in the Eurozone were lending money to Greece so that Greece could pay back the banks of the biggest countries in the Eurozone .  So in exchange for these loans, Greece agreed to austerity measures - basically they raised taxes and cut pensions and other benefits .  And this kind of worked insofar as Greece did decrease their budget deficit from 25 billion euro in 2009 to just 5 . 2 billion euro in 2011 .   But it also caused the Greek economy to contract dramatically .  People had less money to spend as their pensions shrank and their taxes rose, and that in turn led to the failure of businesses and fewer jobs .  And as the economy shrank, so did tax revenues, because the economy is the thing that governments tax, and in the end, nothing really got better .  Greece still didn't have a sustainable economy, so in 2012, the troika loaned them another 130 billion euro .  And then over the last couple years there were some real signs of life in the Greek economy, and it looked like things were starting to bottom out .   But unemployment is still over 25 percent, and I wanna emphasize that economic crises are also humanitarian crises .  30 percent of people in Greece now live in poverty, and almost one in five doesn't have enough money to buy food that will meet their daily nutritional needs . The Greek depression has been as deep as the United States' Great Depression .   And it may not be over .   But from a wider European economic perspective, things have gotten a lot better in the last five years .  Private European banks own much less Greek debt than they did in 2010, the economies of Ireland and Portugal are much healthier, and so it's much less likely that the Greek economy collapsing, or even Greece exiting the euro, would be catastrophic for the rest of Europe . Okay so flash forward to the end of last year, a new leftist government is elected in Greece, and they say  " no more austerity, we can't take it anymore .  "  Their argument, and many economists would agree with this, is that austerity will never work because the economy just keeps shrinking and shrinking and shrinking at least as fast as the deficit does . In response to this, the troika stopped sending loan payments, and then there were a bunch of negotiations, and then the Greek government put it to a referendum:  " Should we continue with austerity, so that we can get this loan money, or should we just say no ?  "  And then on July 5th, the Greek people voted overwhelmingly to say,  " no .  "  Now technically this was a symbolic vote, because the troika had pulled their offer of the table on June 30th .   But yeah, that's how we got to where we are .  Now without these payments coming into Greece, there is suddenly a very serious liquidity crisis in Greek banks . Basically Greek banks may have only 500 million euro left, which is like 45 euro per person in Greece .  Many ATMs are out of cash, others can only dispense 10 euro notes because they're out of 20s .  And if this continues, Greece will be forced to print some form of alternate currency to make payments to retirees and government employees .  And that would be the so-called  " Grexit, "  a Greek exit from the Eurozone .   And nobody knows quite what would happen then, I mean what the economic implications would be, but also the political and legal ones . Now Hank, normally in a situation like this - 25 percent unemployment, shrinking economy, liquidity crisis - Greece would just print more money .   But they can't, because they're part of the Eurozone, and as previously noted, the European Central Bank decides how much money to print .  And that gets to the root of the problem .  The Eurozone wants to be a transnational currency, but each country inside of it answers to their own citizens .  Germany doesn't wanna print more money, it would be bad for the German economy, and they're not keen on sending more money to Greece; from their perspective, it's not their fault that Greece can't pay their debts .  But from a Greek perspective, it's hard to see how that country has benefited from these so-called  " bailouts .  "  Many Greeks feel that the troika's bailouts really only bought time for other European nations and their banks to distance themselves from Greece's financial problems . Hank, this inability to decide just how unified they should be is the real existential problem of the Eurozone . Obviously, Hank, there's a lot of blame to go around here .   But in the end, if you can't listen to the narratives of others, if you can't construct an idea of the Eurozone in which all members are members of some  " us, "  then you can't expect to share a continent effectively, let alone a currency . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .  
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  In a stirring turn of events I have found myself in an airport .  Specifically, the Birmingham, Alabama airport: a great airport in almost every respect .  I mean, there's a playground, it's spacious, the food is good, there's free Wi-Fi .  There's just one fatal flaw: music that I have not chosen to listen to pipes out of every one of these, and there are thousands of them .      I've been in Birmingham for just over 12 hours .  I met Looking For Alaska director, Becca Thomas, and took her to my old high school .    It was really fun .  We went to campus in the middle of the night and I took her to the place I used to smoke cigarettes - don't smoke - and there was graffiti there that said  " The best is yet to come " , which is one of the very few things in life I believe to be fundamentally and incontrovertibly true .       But now I have to leave Birmingham to go to New York City .  I don't exactly know why I'm going to New York City - probably to do press stuff - but anyway, I know that I'm going .   And then my tomorrow - which will be your today - I will be in Indianapolis for the start of the Paper Towns Tour .  An I'll get to hang out with Nat, and Cara, and Akilah Hughes, and lots of Nerdfighters, and then we will go on to Columbus and then Dallas; there is info about all the events, which are free, in the dooblydoo .      Oh God, I hate this song so much I have to find a way out of it - hold on .  There's no way out Hank, the sound is everywhere .  Do you know the song Circle In The Sand ?  That's the song and it's everywhere, it's literally everywhere .  Look at all of these speakers, it's killing me .      Okay Hank, I think I have found the place in the Birmingham airport that is literally as far away from a speaker as you can be - which is still not very far .       What was I supposed to talk about today ?  The best is yet to come, the tour, the movie Paper Towns opens July 24th, there was something - oh !  Brazil !  The movie already came out in Brazil, it had an amazing opening weekend .  Thank you, Brazilian Nerdfighters !  I'm glad that people seemed to have liked the movie; the early reviews are great, which is a huge relief to me .      In other news Hank, a-a-as you might be able to tell, I-I am exhausted .  I mean in the old-fashioned sense of the word, like, I feel that I have been drained out .  Like, I realize these are the first-worldiest of first world problems, but I'm not very good at interviews, and also, I-I miss my family a lot, like I just miss being home .  Like for instance, when I'm at home, I-I-I don't have to listen to this song .   And yeah, the last month or so has been really exhausting, and there's still two weeks to go .      I mention this mostly, Hank, because Nerdfighters seem to have noticed it .  Like, uh, more and more in comments they're like,  " You seem tired, don't worry if you need to take a break "  .   And I really appreciate that, partly because no one else in my professional life is telling me that .        But I'm not going to take a break .  I'm not going to take a break from the movie stuff, because it's almost over, and I don't have any, like, contractual obligations to promote the movie or anything, Hank; I just really like it, and I'm very grateful to the people who made it, and I want to thank them, and this is the way .       And I don't want to take a break from, from this, because honestly, this is the thing that makes me feel not exhausted .  This is the thing that, instead of draining me, fills me up .      Hank, as you know, for a long time in my life I would get to a point where I would get overwhelmed and exhausted, and then I would fall into this spiral where I would do less and less and less, and then eventually I would be doing nothing, but I would still feel overwhelmed and exhausted .  Because the thing is, I didn't just stop doing the things that drained me, I also stopped doing everything else - I stopped functioning completely .       So even if I do have to vlog over a soundtrack not of my choosing, and even if the videos aren't that good - and I'm sorry if this one isn't - I'm going to just keep swimming .  Because Nerdfighteria is, in a very real sense, a big part of what keeps me going .      So Nerdfighters, thank you for worrying about me, but I'm okay, I promise, and I am excited about the tour, because I get to meet some of you instead of just answering the same 8 questions from press outlets over and over .      Hank, I'm going to get on a plane now .  This was a weird video .  I'll see you on Friday .    Old school Vlogbrothers confessional video .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  It's question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real nerdfighters . I asked for brief questions and of course I got them, beginning: briefs or boxers ?  I wear boxer briefs, lets move on !  " If everybody stopped sneezing, how long do you think it would take somebody to realize it ?  "  Wow, I don't know .  I guess I'm gonna say like a month, but I'd like to see some rigorous research applied to the question, it's a very interesting one .  I think it would take a little while for people to be like  " Hey, have you sneezed recently ?  Because I haven't .  "  " How do you think having children has impacted your writing ?  "  I guess there are a lot of times when 2009 me would have been writing and 2015 me is making a Lego Wookiee gun ship .   But I gotta say I don't really feel like it's a bad change, I mean this thing holds 2 different Wookiees, it has double Wookiee pilots .  " A girl at my school told me she'd rather be popular than smart, what is the correct response to this ?  "  Mmm .  .  .  sympathy ?  " Hey John, what's your middle name ?  "  Danger !  It's not .  It's Michael .  " Last TV show you marathoned ?  "  The Americans, which is excellent .  " Hey, are you writing another book ?  "  You know another awesome thing about this Wookiee Gunship ?  It opens up, it's got like a cargo bay inside of it .  " Who's a relatively unknown poet you love ?  "  There's a lot but the first who comes to mind is the Persian poet Hafiz who I feel like is not as well-known here as he should be .  " Apart from pizza, what do you think is the best .  .  .  "  No, no, no, no, no, no, no .  There is no  " apart from pizza .  "  Not a lot of things in this world that make me angry, but you should not be apart from pizza .  Alright, I apologize for the seriousness but that's something I feel strongly about .  Let's return to lighter questions !  " Hey, I heard they're making Looking For Alaska into a movie, who're you going to cast .  .  .  "  I don't cast movie adaptations of my books or actually any movies .   " Hey, will you cast Katie Ho .  .  .  "  Yeah, I just don't cast movies .  I'm a novelist and a video blogger and a pizza enthusiast, and not a caster of films .  " Hey, when are you gonna do your inkless tattoo punishment ?  "  Soon-ish .  Maybe I should get  " I don't cast movies "  tattooed on my cheek .  No, that's a bad idea even for an inkless tattoo but I do need a tattoo idea, let me know if you have any in comments .  " If you could use one dinosaur to ride onto it's back into battle, what dinosaur would it be ?  "  Hey Henry ?  I have a dino-question for you .  Apparently we're gonna go with Apatosaurus .  " Hey now that you're back home, what project are you most excited to work on ?  "  Well, we still haven't put the wings on .  I think they like flap, it's gonna be awesome when it's finished .  Also, I'm signing my name over and over again so that independent bookstores around the US will have signed copies of Paper Towns for the holidays .  " Hey, I didn't see your cameo in the Paper Towns movie .  "  Yeah it's not so much something you see so much as it's someone you hear .  And finally,  " Do you think you or Hank would get further in American Ninja Warrior .  "  Henry and I have been watching a lot of American Ninja Warrior, so I have a built-in advantage because I at least know what it is, whereas I suspect Hank doesn't .  I actually like my odds to get past the quintuple steps .  So yeah, I'm gonna say me .  Hank, maybe we can add American Ninja Warrior to next year's Quadragocon .  In the meantime, I will see you on Friday . Wait, I forgot to answer the most-asked question of the week !   " Can wee see Willie ?  "  Willie !  Treat ! Hi .                   
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday, August 10th, 2015, which means that the next US presidential election is just 454 days away .   Hank, somewhere in the US, later tonight, an egg will be fertilized, and that single cell will grow into two and then four and then much later, a baby will be born, an actual human being will be thrust into the world for the first time, and it will cry, presumably over the state of American political discourse .   Hank, that baby, which has not technically been conceived yet, will be six months old before we elect a president !   It will be laughing at its own farts by the time we actually vote .  So, Hank, campaign cycles are getting longer around the world, but like, in the UK, people don't start paying serious, proper attention to the election until five weeks before it happens, when the Queen dissolved parliament .   In Canada, the 2015 campaign period is 78 days, among the longest in Canadian history, and not coincidentally, also the most expensive .   Ahh, but what I wouldn't give for 78 days .   Hank, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Nigeria, Australia, none of these places have campaign cycles lasting longer than 100 days .   Quick primer for non-Americans, in the US, most states hold so-called  " primary "  elections five to ten months before the proper election .   In these primaries, Republican and Democratic voters choose who they want to be their party's candidate for president, and then those people face each other in the general election .   In the end, the whole process takes about 23 times longer than it does in the UK, and also costs 40 times more, so that's nice . How did this happen ?   Well, as with most things in American history, it used to be much worse .   For most of American history, the president wasn't really elected democratically .   For one thing, most people couldn't vote, because most people were either women or not white .    But even most white males had no say in their party's presidential candidates, because those candidates were chosen either by Congress or by powerful members of the party .    But then, more people could vote and primaries started to gain traction and in January of 1960, John F .  Kennedy made history by declaring his candidacy very early, almost a full year before the election, and there's no way Kennedy could have become president under the old system, he was too .  .  . how do I put this delicately ?   Catholic .    But actual voters liked him more than the Democratic party establishment did, so he became a nominee and eventually the President .    And that's the argument for a long campaign cycle, it allows underdogs to build momentum and in doing so, makes the whole process more democratic .    But the length of presidential campaigns has doubled since Kennedy, and costs have skyrocketed and I struggle to see what we get for all that time and money .   There aren't a lot of serious policy discussions at this point, actual clowns are being treated as serious contenders for the presidency, and instead of focusing on governing, people have to focus entirely on campaigning .   I mean, we're in the middle of a 22 month, multi-billion dollar presidential campaign, but we haven't had a long-term bill to fund highways in four years .   So yeah, I'm not paying attention to this so-called presidential campaign at the moment .   Now, I'm not criticizing those who do choose to care about the US presidential campaign now, there's lots of great organizing and activism going on around the candidates, but focus is elsewhere at the moment .   It's on my kids and this great book that I just read and the elections in Haiti two days ago that finally occurred after three years of delays .   Here's my pledge .   I will begin caring about the US presidential election 100 days before the May 3rd primary here in Indiana .   So if on January 23rd, 2016, Donald Trump is still a candidate for president of the United States, I will think about Donald Trump for the first time in my life, and I will seek to understand his strengths and weaknesses as a presidential candidate .   Until then, I will remain blissfully ignorant .   Hank, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank it's Tuesday !  So many Nerdfighters made amazing book towers that I figured I should give it a try myself so let's head up to the library .  By the way Hank, I have a library .  While I have this voice-over opportunity, I want to recommend three recent reads .  First Ta-Nehisi Coates's amazing book Between the World and Me which I cannot stop thinking about .  Second, The Bail Trap link in the dooblydoo an article in The New York Times that explores one of the reasons people in poverty are disproportionately imprisoned in the United States .   And third, another article in The New York Times about a fourteen year old boy locked in solitary confinement which I found chilling and deeply upsetting .  Also since those are all tough reads, I recommend a GIF of a puppy jumping for the first time, link in the dooblydoo . AAAHHH Dangit !  !  Well there you have it Hank, couldn't build a house of cards in 2007 and can't build a house of books in 2015, some things never change .  Okay, insert artful transition here, Hank I took the Nerdfighter Census survey yesterday, great survey as always but I felt like some of the questions weren't inclusive of me, like the question  " Do you follow John on Twitter ?  "  I just didn't know how to answer that because technically I don't, but I also kinda feel like I do .  I mean, I see most of John's tweets .  Also, you asked me whether I watch videos at school, which I don't, because that would be creepy, but not whether I watch videos at work . Which I do because technically, like, watching Akilah Hughes get drunk and review books is my job, well that and semi-professional FIFA playing .  Speaking of which Hank, behold the wonder of the John Green Stand at AFC Wimbledon's stadium .  Okay Hank but there was one question I did not appreciate at all, question twenty five, the one where you pit my beautiful unwavering puff against your fancy new hair style by asking  " Who has better hair, Hank or John ?  "  .  Now Hank we use the Nerdfighter Census every year to figure out what topics we should cover on Crash Course and what sort of videos we should make on Vlogbrothers and it helps us to understand the interests and passions of Nerdfighteria and I'm so grateful to everyone who fills it out but I don't want to submit my hair to a popular vote .  In fact Hank, just seeing that question made me go out and and get this haircut, and I'm worried that soon, in an attempt to impress Nerdfighteria and win their pileous support, we'll have an ever escalating arms race, like the US and the Soviets did in the 1980s, only with hair instead of nuclear weapons .  Until eventually one of us goes bankrupt and our empire collapses .  Is that what you want Hank ?   And yes, I did just use the word pileous, meaning of or relating to hair .  This whole hair thing is making me so anxious that my vocabulary is coming out .  Hank, one of the weirdest and most beautiful things about Nerdfighteria is that in eight years, they've never allowed us to have, like, a proper sibling rivalry .  It's never been about Team Hank or Team John, it's always been about Team Hank  And John .  Or as I prefer to think of it, Team John  And Hank .   But you put that question in the survey Hank, so I guess you want a contest, and you're gonna get one . Here's the thing about John's hair, Hank .  You may not always agree with it, but you have to respect it's honesty .  John's hair, the Puff, has remained fundamentally unchanged over the last eight years, it grows and shrinks with my anxiety levels but at it's core, the Puff is the Puff .  This is hair without product or artifice or gimmicks, I'm not sure you can say that about Hank's hair, but I'm not going to run a negative campaign .  You're never going to hear me say  " Hank, what's it like having a haircut that Tyler Oakley discarded in 2011 ?  "   And I would never point out that Hank has the haircut of a young Republican and the face of a de-mustachioed Leon Trotsky .  Nope, you'll never hear that from me because my hair is keeping it positive .  Let me just submit that a vote for John's hair is a vote for stability, and brotherhood, and unity .  So friends, please fill out the 2015 Nerdfighter Census, and when you do, consider the Puff .  Also if you have a job please fill out the Nerdfighter Census because right now I can't tell if it's selection bias or if the unemployment rate in Nerdfighteria is actually 85 percent, which would be quite worrisome, it would put us at the very bottom of like, uh, all countries .  Hank, you're a good brother and you have good hair .  It's just not this good .  I'll see you on Friday .  
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  So earlier this morning, I was kayaking on the White River and I came to an island that only exists when the water is low and so I had to choose which stream to follow down and I thought, as I always do in these situations, of Robert Frost's poem, The Road Not Taken . You know, the one that ends in,  " Two roads diverged in a wood, and I-- I took the one less traveled by,  And that has made all the difference .  "  So I followed the road that seemed the less obvious choice .  It turns out that it was the less obvious for a reason .  So Hank, The Road Not Taken is an interesting poem because 1) it's kind of responsible for the death of the person it was written for and 2) what most people conclude from the poem is the exact opposite of what Robert Frost intended to conclude .   And also, 3) this dissonance points at something terrible about poetry I think Hank .   But let's start with 1 - that dead guy .  So Robert Frost was inspired to write this poem by the many walks he took with his friend, the English poet, Edward Thomas .  Thomas was a very obsessive and indecisive person, and every time they'd come to a fork in the road, he wouldn't know which one to take .  You know, like how if you're in the English countryside and if you choose the wrong path, you might get eaten by a lion .   But you can't know that until after you've made the choice .  I assume that there are lions in England, at least dandy lions .  And in Frost's mind, the poem was, like, gently mocking people who obsess over the importance of tiny, little decisions, right ?   But as often happens with people who are mocked too gently, Edward Thomas didn't get the joke and took the poem very, very seriously .   And so even though Edward Thomas was too old to be expected to enlist, he went ahead and took the road less traveled, joining the British army to fight in World War I, where upon he was promptly shot through the chest and killed .  Since then Hank, pretty much everyone, including me, has adopted Edward Thomas' interpretation of the poem despite the fact that it, you know, it killed him .  I think there's just something alluring about the idea that choosing the road less traveled is always a good idea .  It would be very helpful if there was some overarching guideline, like  " follow the path that others don't .  "  Also, following the road less taken has the added advantage of making everyone feel like a non-conformist, which is nice .   But of course, there are a bunch of problems .  For one thing, if everyone followed the road less traveled, it quickly becomes the road more traveled .  Furthermore, there are many times when the road more traveled is more traveled for a reason, because for instance, the road less traveled leads to a kayak unfriendly marsh .  Or because it turns out that there's something kind of nice about having a spouse and two kids and a mini-van .  Anyways Hank, I've been thinking about this a lot because over at our podcast, Dear Hank and John, we've been getting a lot of questions from listeners who are making huge life decisions, you know, should I go into the military ?  Which college should I attend ?  Should I attend college at all ? As humans, we constantly have to make all of these big, big decisions, with very limited information .  Like Hank, we're both incredibly blessed to have great marriages and great spouses, but I had no idea what I was agreeing to on my wedding day .  I thought I was saying,  " I want to be in a romantic relationship with you for the rest of my life .  "  I did not realize that I was also saying, like,  " I want to be co-CEOs of a company that raises children and mows lawns and stuff .  " Anyways Hank, the other thing about Dear Hank and John is that I insist on beginning each episode with a short poem .   And so in the last few weeks, we've had a bunch of discussions about poetry - whether poetry matters, what poetry does, etc .   And I think, Hank, we have at The Road Not Taken one answer about what poetry can do .  Because poetry is so often musical and rhythmic, it has a way of sticking in our heads, like I've memorized it almost by accident .  Frost thought the poem was exploring how people experience choice-making rather than offering advice, but precisely because it sounds good Hank, it seems like good advice .   And even though I know that it isn't good advice, at least not consistently, I suspect that the next time I am facing a fork in the road or a fork in the river, those iambic feet will wander back into my mind .   And I will once again be biased, however minutely, toward the road less traveled .  I guess that's one example of how I think poetry can really matter in the real lives of real people, Hank, and why I think that poets and readers alike need to be very careful with language .  After all, Hank, we don't want to end up like Edward Thomas, but we also don't want to end up like the poet, who at least in a roundabout way, killed him .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .   I had oral surgery yesterday, so I'm in a lot of pain, but I'm also on a lot of pain medication, so I apologize if I slur my words or if blood dribbles out of the corner of my mouth or whatever .  But anyway, Hank, today's video is like the Buddhist path to enlightenment: it comes to you in eight parts . So Hank, later this week there's gonna be this big meeting in New York City, in which 193 world leaders will agree to some global goals for humans to achieve by 2030 .   A while back, a similar meeting happened at which world leaders agreed to the Millennium Development Goals: eight goals to change the history of the world forever .    And surprisingly enough, it sort of worked . So Hank, today I'm going to look back at those eight goals, and then maybe on Friday you can look forward to the new ones for us . Okay, Goal Number One: Between 1990 and 2015, cut in half the proportion of people living in extreme poverty and suffering from hunger .   That doesn't seem possible to do in 25 years, except that WE DID IT !   YES, PEOPLE . So in 1990, about 1 . 9 billion people lived on the equivalent of less than $1 . 25 per day .   Now, even after adjusting for inflation etc . , that number is more than a billion people smaller .   Most of this is due to huge decreases in poverty in China and South Asia and South America, but the rate of poverty in Sub-Saharan Africa has also fallen since 1990 .   As for hunger, we're probably going to miss that goal of reducing it by 50 percent, but just barely .   In 1990, 23 percent of people in the developing world were undernourished .   Today, it's under 13 percent . Goal Number Two: Achieve Universal Primary Education .   They weren't messing around with these goals, Hank .   Well, we're not quite there, but again, the progress is really impressive .   Primary school enrollment in the developing world is over 90 percent, and in the last 25 years the global literacy rate among young people has increased from 83 percent to 91 percent . Goal Number Three: Gender Equality .   Okay, so speaking of kids in schools, in South Asia in 1990 there were 75 girls in school for every 100 boys, and today there are 103 girls in school for every 100 boys .   Step it up, boys ! Worldwide, women now make up 41 percent of the non-agricultural workforce .   In 1990, it was just 35 percent .    And there are more women working in universities and serving in parliaments .   That said, there are still massive disparities between men and women, so I hope that's a big focus for the new round of global goals . Okay, Goal Number Four: Reduce the childhood mortality rate by 66 percent between 1990 and 2015 .   So as you can see in this video I stole from the Gates Foundation  , a lot of kids died before the age of five around the world in 1990, but in the last 25 years, the childhood mortality rate has dropped dramatically .   Just to cite one example, measles vaccinations have prevented about 15 million child deaths in the last 25 years .   Unfortunately we're going to miss that 66 percent target reduction, but even so, global childhood mortality has dropped by more than half since 1990 . Goal Number Five: Reduce the maternal mortality rate by 75 percent .   As you can see in this Gates Foundation chart  , there was very little progress on this front until 2005, and then when worldwide investment in maternal health increased, maternal mortality decreased dramatically . Goal Number Six: Halt and begin to reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS and the incidence of malaria .   This has been a huge success .   Again, the HIV death rate began to decline when investment in HIV prevention and treatment began to increase .    And we see the same thing with malaria, where global deaths have decreased about 20 percent since 2000 . Goal Number Seven: Ensure environmental sustainability .   Let's not pretend that this has gone well . Goal Number Eight:  " Develop a global partnership for development .  "   Hank, I'm going to level with you .   I don't know the meaning of a sentence that seeks to develop a development .  Overall, though, Hank, this has been a really good 25 years for humans .   You are much less likely to be poor or hungry or illiterate than you were in 1990 .   If you're a girl you're more likely to go to school, and if you're a mother you're less likely to die during childbirth, or to have to bury one of your kids .    And the Millennium Development Goals had a lot to do with this .   Now they certainly weren't the only factor, but the attention and investment that resulted from the MDGs made a huge difference .    And that's why it's so important for all of us to pay attention to the new goals . Hank, there are young people watching this video who may be among the first humans to see a world where extreme poverty and hunger are rare .   Hank, I hope we can learn more about what the plan is to get humans to that place when I see you on Friday .  
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  I don't know what today's video is about .  I'm on a social media hiatus right now, it turns out it's very difficult for me to hiate from social media, but I'm on the hiatus to write a book .  Like, I've been  " working "  on a novel for the last four years, but I'm trying to, like, take the quotation marks out of that  " working "  .  But like, when I'm really into a story, it's hard to think about anything else, so I'm just, like, sitting here thinking about things that I can't tell you about .  Anyway, I think it's going well, but who knows, I've been wrong before . I know there were things I was supposed to talk about .  Oh, right, NerdCon !  Hank, NerdCon: Stories is just like a week and a half away in the beautiful city of Minneapolis .  There's a great bunch of storytellers coming, but the relevant thing here, Hank, is that somehow or another, I agreed to a race car race with my friend, Maggie .  You know, Maggie Stevater .  Stivater ?  Stream Water ?  You know, Maggie, who wrote all of those great books .  Apparently, it's Stiefvater, Steve like the name, otter like the mammal .  So separate from NerdCon, she and I are going to be racing in actual race cars on an actual race car track on October 9th at 7:30 at Princeton Speedway outside of Minneapolis .  It's 5 bucks at the door, all the proceeds go to this charity Drivers Edge, and I have to wear, like, a helmet and a fire suit in case my car catches on fire, and I'm going to lose . Oh, also, there's flowing water on Mars occasionally, apparently, and it's very exciting, and the SciShow people got so excited, they made, like, shirts and posters . Hank, I feel vicariously very happy for you whenever there's big Mars news like this, but you what's so exciting that we haven't taken a second to just be psyched about lately ?  Flowing water on Earth !  Earth, man !  What a planet ! Sarah says I should show you how my tattoo is doing, so I'm going to do that now .  Don't get alarmed, Hank .  I'm just, you know, taking off my shirt .  Still there a little bit . What else ?  Oh !  The wall !  So many people, Hank, were complaining about the blank, blue wall that I finally put up my wall stuff .  We've got Woody Guthrie and his guitar, a big Willie and a medium-sized me and a puppy-sized elephant, this weird card someone sent me of Hank humping Peeps, these Yoshitomo Nara figures were edited by Sarah for my birthday back in 2007 .   And speaking of the Yeti, there's one, as well as a misprinted business card, and Brotherhood 2 . 0 resident mathematician Daniel Biss's original paper about how circles are really just bloated triangles . I was just thinking that a lot of this seems really weird if you haven't watched every Vlogbrothers video, but then it occurred to me that it also seems weird if you have .   " I heart my Nerdfighting Peeps " , and then of course we've got the Swindon Town F . A .  Cup Championship from 2011, Abraham Lincoln, a black Santa, a road map with Agloe, New York on it, the beer sword, beautiful drawing of Willie, Nerdfightastic shoes, Chewbacca, a DFTBA ducky, and An Imperial Affliction, which I stole from the movie set . Then we've got some Willies, and puppy-sized elephants, and French llamas, and St .  Francis of Assisi .  I'm not really sure what he's doing there .  It's just a start, Hank, but I think it looks pretty good .  Nerdfighters, let me know what I'm missing in comments . So, Hank, I was just violating my social media hiatus by looking at Twitter to see if there's anything else I should talk about, and as it turns out that in the last hour you've launched a new company .  Hank, you amaze me .  That's not a compliment, exactly .  It's just an observation . So, Hank, DFTBA Games, which you co-founded, has just launched a Kickstarter for its first game, Wizard School .  It's a card game that hones ones wizard education skills while one waits for ones letter from Hogwarts which one hasn't totally given up on, even though one is technically 38 years old . I, for one, am excited .  In fact, I was one of your first ten backers .  The Yeti and I are huge nerds for tabletop card games, Hank, so this is very exciting for us . OK, Hank, I'm going to go back to working on the story now .  Hopefully, I'll be able to report real progress on a real book soon .  Hank, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday !  It's Question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real Nerdfighters .  Let's get right to it ! I'll be meeting my boyfriend's mother at Christmas and she only speaks German .  How do I make this less awkward ? Well you should learn a little German .  I'm sure there's some German Nerdfighters in comments who can help you .   But I can start, here's a good sentence:  " Das Schicksal ist ein mieser Verrater .  "  Here's another one  " Ihr Sohn ist ein guter Kusser .  " Can you say anything in Spanish ? Can I ?  Of course !   " Me llamo Juan Verde .  Soy un nerd .  " Favorite video game ? Original Super Mario Kart . Hey John, how are you today ?  Also, do you have any book recommendations ? I'm good .  I'm a little bit annoyed about the overall quality of political discourse in the United States .   But yes !  I do have book recommendations .  I'm just re-reading Life on the Mississippi by Mark Twain which is so good !  Also, I just read Toni Morrison's new novel, and I know it's not her best book or anything, but I still thought it was great ! Do you have any unpopular opinions about classic literature ? I kind of stand with W .  H .  Auden on this one .   " Some books are undeservedly forgotten, none are undeservedly remembered .  " Is there anything you aren't terrified of that you should be ? No .  I don't want to brag, but I sort of specialize in being terrified . Do you think everyone should consider taking a hiatus from social media like you have ? I don't know, but I can say I haven't missed social media as much as I thought I would .  It had become a really unhealthy place for me in a lot of ways .  For the last, like, 8 years I've been surrounded by a community online that is incredibly generous and kind to me, and to my work .   And criticism has almost always been really thoughtful and respectful .   But there's been this small, but persistent amount of really vicious and hateful stuff directed at me that I just had found tremendously hurtful, and it hasn't been good for my mental health, and .  .  .  yeah .   And while there are definitely things that I miss about my old internet life, I find it much easier to write and do other work without all of that stuff floating around in my head . Speaking of writing:What's your new book about ? I can't say because I don't know which parts of what I'm writing is going to actually end up in a book, but I did put a clue for you in this video !   But you won't be able to decode the clue until after you read the story, so it's kind of useless I'm sorry . Did you ever read Henning Mankell ? Yes, of course, Mankell was a great Swedish crime novelist who sadly died yesterday .  I always admired him, not just for his stories but also because he made a lot of money and gave almost all of it away .  He once wrote,  " I still have a photo on my wall of the greatest idol I will ever have, myself at age 8 .  Because that's when the forces of the imagination have the same value as the real world, when they're an instrument of survival .  When my mother disappeared, and I imagined a mother, that was me at my best .  " What's your signature dish ? You know, there's that, like, small plate that's for desserts and there's that big plate that's for dinner, and then there's that medium sized plate that's sort of all-purpose ?  I am a huge fan of this medium plate, my signature dish . Would you be interested in becoming the next manager of Liverpool Football Club ? Oh yeah, I already sent them a resume .  My qualifications include having taken AFC Wimbledon from League 2 to the Champions League in FIFA 14, and having an inside track on one of the world's best youth players, Henry Green . Is there an animal you'd like to see in the wild ? I'm pretty into tuatara lately . How prepared do you feel for your drag race against Maggie Stiefvater on Friday ? Well I actually have a friend who's a professional racecar driver, so I consulted with her on this topic and she said,  " John, you really, you need to be prepared to lose .  "   And so, in that sense, I guess that I'm very prepared . Would you rather be a sheep or a goat ? Definitely a sheep .  I've always wanted to be a sheep, because then when people are like  " Hey, where'd you get that sweater ?  "  I could be like  " Oh, I knit it myself, using my own hair .  " What's the most impressive word you use in casual conversation ? I use the word eschatological a lot, because there's no shorter word that means the exact same thing and kind of my default emotional state is eschatological anxiety . What's your best advice for traveling with children ? When possible, don't . What's the greenest green you've ever seen, John Green ? This forest in Brazil when it was raining, and everything was impossibly green, but everything in a slightly different shade; it was really, it was like home For Greens . If you could travel anywhere you wanted and live there for a year, where would it be ? Honestly, if I could stay anywhere on Earth for a year right now, it would be this house . Hey, who's your style icon ? I think you mean Styles icon . If you could be stuck in the world of any TV show or movie, what would it be ? Star Trek: The Next Generation .  Please let that happen !  Please let that happen !  Please let me open my eyes and be hanging out with Wesley Crusher .  3, 2, 1 !  DANGIT ! Hank, I suspect when it comes to that last question, you and I are in agreement .  I will see you on Friday !  Both at NerdCon and on YouTube .  
Hello, it's Hank .  If you watch YouTube videos with your subscription box, it probably right now looks very broken to you and it definitely, almost certainly is not showing you the most recent video I uploaded which I uploaded just a couple hours ago .  I've talked to the people at YouTube, they're working on fixing it, but in the meantime, I worked hard on this video, it's about Benghazi, the attack and also the city and what it means for American politics and what it means for Libya .   And I'm proud of it and I hope that people see it, so I'm disappointed that it is not being distributed the way that YouTube videos usually are .  So if you haven't seen that video, you don't know that it exists, you can click, or the link in the description and watch it .  I would love it, thank you very much .  Hopefully it will all be fixed .  I'll delete this video as soon as it is .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday, October 27th, 2015, a significant day in YouTube history because tomorrow, YouTube Red launches, which may or may not change online video forever .      Also, you'll notice that I trimmed my beard because Nerdfighters had started to refer to it as the Under Puff .      Right, but YouTube Red .  So until now, YouTube has always been like network television and radio before it - an advertising-supported medium .      Now there are obvious advantages to this .  Creators get paid unlike most social media sites, and also, it's free for viewers .       But there are also disadvantages .  Ad-supported media tends to seek the broadest possible audience because what advertisers really want is the most possible eyeballs to see their message .       And with ad-supported media, we generally end up with stuff that lots of people will watch over stuff that, like, some people will really, really love .  You know like broad spectrum shows like Law & Order can succeed, but niche shows like Firefly or Arrested Development can't .      Also, I know you probably don't think you're affected by advertising, but you are .  To quote Emily Nussbaum's brilliant recent essay on what advertising has done to television,  " Our comfort with being sold to may look like savvy, but it feels like innocence .  "      I mean, Hank, corporations know a lot more about what influences my consumptive habits than I do .  That phenomenon has been studied extensively, sources in the dooblydoo, where you can also find a link to Nussbaum's essay .      So OK, having acknowledged my advertising ambivalence, let's explore my YouTube Red ambivalence .      Here's the idea - for ten dollars a month, you get ad-free YouTube, off-line watching, and all the music you want .  So it's like Spotify plus ad-free YouTube .      Also, there will be some new original shows from people like PewDiePie and other YouTubers that are only available to YouTube Red subscribers .      So Hank, the question I've heard the most from people is  " Is this good for creators ?  "  which speaks a lot to how awesome the YouTube viewership is .  The answer to that question is .  .  .  yeah ?      Some portion of that ten dollars per month will go to the YouTubers you watch, I don't really know how much yet .   And per viewer, YouTube Red will generate more money for creators than advertising .      That said, it's like a thousand times more valuable to support a creator through Patreon or through buying merch than through either YouTube Red or advertising .  Actually, it's not like a thousand, it is a thousand times better .  Maybe even two thousand .  The best way to financially support creators you care about remains directly .  So I don't think that's the reason to get YouTube Red .   But I do think there are good reasons .  I mean I'm gonna get it .       But anyway Hank, here's what concerns me the most: will YouTube Red create two classes of YouTube viewers - those who can pay and those who can't ?      One of the things that makes YouTube really special is that at it's best, it's a flat platform for both creators and audiences, right ?  Like I have the same capacity to reach an audience sitting here in my basement as a major media company does .       And on the audience side, if you have access to a device and the internet, all of YouTube is available to you .  Now that started to change a little on the creator side of things as production values have risen, but I really don't want it to change on the audience side .      Like YouTube is gonna remain essentially the same for everyone who doesn't become a Red subscriber .  The only difference is that you won't have access to these new high-budget original shows .      Like PewDiePie is making a horror show with the producers of The Walking Dead, and that sounds awesome !   And it would also be completely impossible in an advertising-supported medium .       But Nerdfighters, I wonder if you would be excited or scared if your favorite creators did such a show .  I'm asking for a friend by the way .      Like, it allows creators to have the kinds of budgets you can't have for advertising-supported projects, but on the other hand, it limits the number of people who can actually see the thing to Red subscribers .      In short Hank, I don't know how to feel about all this stuff .  We've always been uncomfortable with advertising, and it's nice to see YouTube moving away from sole reliance upon it .       But I think YouTube Red will be a good option for a lot of people without harming the experience of the majority who stick with ad-supported YouTube .   And in general, I think that subscriptions make viewers more powerful and brands slightly less so .   And that's good news .       But I'm not sure I want YouTube to look like cable TV when it grows up .  I want YouTube to be driven by the stuff that makes it interesting, by passionate fan communities who do awesome stuff together by the direct relationship between creator and audience .  I mean, at it's best, YouTube isn't something you watch; it's something you're part of .      So the question becomes, is YouTube Red a step toward that promise land or away from it ?  I don't know .  That's not a rhetorical question .  I look forward to continuing the conversation in comments, Nerdfighters .      Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .  Nope, Friday .  Gosh, I was so in Brotherhood 2 . 0 mode .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  So today I want to tell you an amazing story about a monkey who was hanged for treason and then many years later in a round about way kind of became the leader of the people who had executed him .  But first I have to tell you how I learned this story .  So Hank, as you know Nerdfighteria and I sponsor a fourth tier fan-owned English soccer club called AFC Wimbledon .  We're the back of shorts sponsor; our logo occupies that liminal space between buttock and thigh .  And not to brag or anything, but AFC Wimbledon have won three straight games, including most recently a two-nil defeat of Hartlepool .  So I was reading up on the game and I came across an odd headline, Hank: Don's Down Monkey Hangers .  This lead me to Wikipedia and you know, Hank, usually when you fall down a Wikipedia rabbit hole, nothing good comes from it, but occasionally, monkey hangers ! So, Hank, journey back with me, if you will, to the early 19th century .  The French Revolution which promised democracy and freedom and equality has failed spectacularly, as revolutions often do .   And in the end, all they've done is replace a despot named Louis with a despot named Napoleon .  To celebrate his success within France, Napoleon Bonaparte decides to start a 13 year long conflict, aptly known as the Napoleonic Wars, in which he conquers and then eventually loses most of Europe, except, of course, he never conquers Great Britain and he also never conquers Russia because you cannot invade Russia in the winter unless you're the Mongols . So OK, the story goes, and sadly it is probably just a story, that during the Napoleonic Wars, a French warship sank just off the coast of Hartlepool, which I should mention, I guess, is a city in the north-east of England .  Of course like a lot of British place names - Sunderland, Snodland, Braintree - Hartlepool sounds like a place where hobbits live but in fact is a real city of, like, 93,000 citizens . Right, so this French warship sinks right off the coast and the only survivor of the wreck is a monkey wearing a French Army uniform .  Now the good people of Hartlepool, living as they do in the far north-east of England, have never seen either a French person or a monkey so they naturally assume that this monkey is a French spy .  An impromptu trial is held on the beach, the monkey is found guilty of treason and hanged . Now what probably actually happened is that an old folk song was adapted to history but whatever !  The people of Hartlepool have embraced this monkey hanging business unreservedly !  In fact, Hank, since 1999 the mascot of Hartlepool's football team has been a monkey named H'Angus .  Get it, Angus is a name and then H'Angus is a pun on monkey hanging .  But it gets weirder .  In 2002 the guy inside the H'Angus the monkey costume was named Stuart Drummond and mostly as a publicity stunt the team supported Stuart Drummond's run for mayor .  The only campaign promise he ever made was  " free bananas for all schoolchildren "  .  There were also lots of real politicians running: Labour, Conservative, all the standard UK parties, but Stuart H'Angus the monkey won !   And then, despite never getting those bananas to school children, he was elected again in 2005 and again in 2009 !  To summarize, Hank, a city in England hung a monkey who became a mascot who became the mayor . I guess there are really two lessons in this for me, Hank .  The first is embrace your history even if it's bananas .  Ha, I made a pun .   And the second lesson for me is that we are always in the middle of history .  Like, Hank, imagine that you're that monkey, things could not really have gone worse .  You're conscripted into the French Army, you're sent to sea which is not the ideal place for monkeys to be, you're forced to wear this ridiculous French Army outfit, and then to top it all off you're hung by a bunch of Hartlepudlians .  If you're that monkey you're probably thinking  " Puh, this is abut as bad as it could have gone .  "   But there was this whole future the monkey couldn't possibly have known about as indeed there is a future that all of us can't possibly know about .   And in that future this monkey becomes a weird symbol of the community that hanged him and then gets its ass kicked by AFC Wimbledon .  So I guess it is kind of a sad story now that I think about it .   But we are in the middle of history and there's something encouraging about that to me .  I mean, maybe we could make things better for that monkey, probably not at this point but, you know, I don't know .  I remain weirdly optimistic . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  Happy Pizzamas !  Underneath my Pizza John sweatshirt, I've got my Pizza John Galaxy, which I guess means that I'm wearing my face atop my face atop my torso, which is a little bit weird .   But anyway, Hank, I have breaking news ! In the comments from our last video, Nerdfighter Matt wrote,  " I haven't liked your beard for years .  I like it now, "  which came right on the heels of you texting me, Hank:  " Good video, and I finally like your beard .  "  Hank, all of this can only mean one thing: It's time to shave the beard .  MOVIE --MAGIC !  It's a Pizzamas miracle, Hank, my mustache is back !  Alright, Hank .  Time to move on to the serious business of today's video, but first I mustache you not to make fun of me .  You know, this is a gift for you . Today's video comes to you in four parts . Part 1: Hank, yesterday you said that the Project for Awesome begins at midnight on December 11th .  That was a lie .  In fact, it begins at noon Eastern Time on December 11th .  That's when the Project For Awesome livestream will begin .  It's also when you should upload your Project For Awesome videos, Nerdfighters .  Remember, your Project for Awesome videos could raise money for your favorite charities ! For those who don't know, the Project for Awesome is an annual charity event organized by Nerdfighteria .  Actually Hank talked about it in his last video and you should just watch that because it's very funny .   And also, he's got some dance moves in it that are equal to or maybe slightly better than Drake's . Part 2: In addition to all these Pizza John T-shirts only being available for pre-order during Pizzamas, there's lots of other Pizza John gear that's only available during Pizzamas, including shoestrings .  Also, a travel mug and many other items, I can't decide what is my favorite but I think it might be the Pisa shirt .  'Cause it's leaning, it's a leaning face of Pisa . Part 3: A story from my recent past .  So Hank, I don't like to drop names or anything but after I got meningitis last year Bill Gates sent me a  " get well soon "  orchid .  It was a really thoughtful gesture and I really appreciated it .  So anyway, recently we had a dinner party at our house and someone said  " I love your orchid !  "  and I said  " I know, it's beautiful, right ?  Not to name drop or anything, but Bill Gates gave it to me .  "   And everyone was like  " Oh, that's very impressive, a Bill Gates orchid .  "  Except Sarah was looking at me kind of funny so I was like  " What ?  "  and she was like  " Oh, it's nothing, "  and I was like  " What !  ?  "  and she was like  " Well, I mean .  .  .  that's not Bill Gates's orchid .  "   And I was like  " What do you mean it's not Bill Gates's orchid !  ?  "   And she was like  " Bill Gates's orchid died .  We got this orchid at Trader Joe's .  "  So I was a little bit embarrassed but, you know, I'm not a particularly observant person when it comes to orchids .  So anyway, flash forward a couple week, my friend Stuart, seen here with his wife Anne-Marie and the orchid in question, brings me a gift and I unwrap it and it's a little plaque for my orchid .  To remind me, you know, that's not Bill Gates's orchid .  Anyway, Hank, what I'm saying is that I have great friends .  This is a double bragging story, because first I'm bragging about the Bill Gates orchid and then I'm bragging about how great my friends are .   But my point is that Stuart and Anne-Marie were part of an Art Assignment we just did which was also a dinner party .  You can watch that video over at the Art Assignment . Part 4: Sometimes I glance at myself in the viewfinder and I cannot believe that I'm going to upload this to YouTube .  That is not part four .  I have to say, the moustache is kind of growing on me actually Hank, both literally and figuratively .  This video has just descended into a series of dad jokes . Part four is that I'm going to do a Question Tuesday on Thursday because it seems like the right time to do it, Hank .  So Nerdfighters, I need your questions, preferably brief ones, in comments . Hank, I must say the resemblance is uncanny .  Happy Pizzamas !  I will see you tomorrow . P . S .  I just went upstairs and saw Alice and she looked at me for a long time and then said  " Daddy, what on your face ?  "  and I said  " Oh it's a mustache, "  and she said  " a must ask ?  "  and I said  " I actually already made that joke .  "                 
Good Morning Hank, It's Monday . I spent much of this weekend in New York's Central Park, and for some reason I kept thinking of my favorite photograph .  So there was this German photographer, August Sander, who's famous for his massive, never-finished series  " People of the 20th Century "  in which he took pictures of everyone from bricklayers to circus performers to famous composers .  Along the way he also took my favorite picture - this one - which is sometimes known as  " Three farmers on their way to a dance - 1914 "  . There's a lot I like about this picture .  I like how the farmer's heads are cut off by the horizon .  I like how their faces are in the sky but their feet are in the mud, and I like what the photograph tells us about class and history; that by 1914 mass production meant that these young farmers could afford suits and fancy hats and canes .  For the first time in history, European peasants in the countryside could dress like, or almost like, urban professionals .   But then again they are still walking instead of driving in a car .  These are young men on the cusp of what I think of as the contemporary world and I like how they're looking over their shoulders as if they can only briefly pause for the camera before they head off to their futures - to the dance . It was the middle of 1914 and these three farmers were, of course, on their way to two dances - the one they knew about, and World War One . These men very likely ended up fighting in that war, and they may well have been among the 17-million people who died in it .   And the very same industrial manufacturing innovations that made their clothes affordable, created the bullets and machine guns that made WWI so lethal . The three people in this photograph are living in the middle of history .  Like, to us, the dance they were walking towards seems inevitable but to see their faces is to know that it wasn't .  That history is choices we -collectively- make about how to look at the world and how to respond to what we see .  These three young farmers, walking along a road in the German Vestervald 101 years ago remind me that I am also in the middle of history and that how I imagine the world, and the people in it, really matters . Someone once told me that  " photographs are just light and time "  and in this picture, August Sander captured a helluva light and a helluva time . I pray we never see the likes of it again .  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Friday, it's the final day of Pizzamas 2015 .   And what a ride it's been .  We've laughed, we've cried, we've suited up, we've learned some art history, and perhaps most importantly, we have made the acquaintance of cheese doodles guy .    But all good things must end, even the excitement over cheese doodles .  In fact, come to think of it everything must end .  In this universe, to be is to not always be .  Or actually, maybe not, maybe to be is just to change .  After all, those cheese doodles eventually became poop .  But anyway, the end of Pizzamas also means this is the last day you can order Pizzamas merch .  My face, in a nebula, on your torso, only available until midnight tonight, along with the rest of the Pizzamas merch .  Check it out at dftba . com, link in the Dooblydoo .   But if you leave Pizzamas with no physical mementos, fear not, when Nerdfighter D . C .  complained that they were too broke to enjoy Pizzamas, Untapped Inkwell replied,  " Pizzamas is just as much a state of being as it is a consumerist holiday "  .  So true .  So true of all consumerist holidays actually, which these days is to say all holidays .  But speaking of states of being, you talked about kinda personal stuff in your video yesterday, Hank, so I guess I'll do the same .  I have a mental illness called Obsessive Compulsive Disorder which is often associated with anxiety, and depression problems . I try to talk about that sometimes because I don't think there should be anything embarrassing about mental illness, but I don't talk about it that much because 1) it's personal, and 2) I find it difficult to talk about my own experiences with chronic illness because the central way we imagine sickness, as a thing that we must conquer and then put behind us, doesn't really apply to chronic illness . Like when you go to the store to get a card for a sick friend, you go to the Get Well Soon section, right ?  but for people living with chronic illness, it often isn't a question of getting well soon . Like, Hank, I hope someday they cure ulcerative colitis, but I don't expect you to get well soon .  Instead, my hope for you is that you have a rich and full life, and that you aren't marginalized because of your illness .  Which is a big problem .  I have a theory about this Hank .  I don't think that we humans like to imagine our lives as random .  We need human lives to be narratives that make sense .  So if we can't find causation, we just create it . Like people get depression because they're weak, or they get diabetes because they don't eat well, or they have heart failure because they don't exercise .  All that stuff is either totally inaccurate, or overly simplistic, but we want every effect to have a cause, and when we can't find that cause, we invent one . Anyway Hank, as you know, I have been very sick the last several weeks as I've tried to figure out a new medication regimen . Over the years of living with my illness, I've learned a lot about how to make it tolerable .  I've learned to celebrate small successes, I've learned to encourage myself without being cruel, and most importantly, I've learned that there is hope, and when I feel like there isn't hope, my brain is lying to me .  But still, it is awful, and after years of relatively good health, I have been reminded in the last several weeks, just how painful and crushing this stuff can be .   And that's despite my having all kinds of advantages, that make it easier to live with .  An incredibly supportive family, total job flexibility, an excellent therapist and psychiatrist, money to afford medication, et cetera .  Most people don't have all those resources and that worsens any kind of illness . Hank, I mention all this for three reasons, first to tell people who may be living with mental illness that there is hope, that mental illness is almost always treatable, and that how you feel when you are at your sickest is not how you will always feel .   And down in the doobly-doo you can find the links to resources that I have found helpful and that people I know have found helpful . Secondly, I want to remind all of us that what we see in videos, or on Instagram, isn't the whole story .  Like, my friends and family have known that I have been unwell the last several weeks because it is impossible for me to hide it from them, but it is very possible for me to hide it with jump cuts .  And lastly, to say  " thanks "  .  Thank you for watching these videos and Hank, thank you for the gift of Pizzamas, which has given structure and achievable tasks to my life at time when I desperately needed them . I'm starting to feel better for a variety of reasons from medication to exercise, but the gift of Pizzamas has been surprisingly important, so thank you for being part of it . Hank, Don't Forget To Be Awesome, I will see you .  .  .  NO, no, you will see me, on Tuesday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . I want to ask you a question .  Do you think the violent crime rate in the United States has gone up, or down, or stayed about the same since 1990 ? The answer is that it has gone down, dramatically . In fact, there are about half as many violent crimes per one thousand Americans as there were 25 years ago .  Overall crime rates are also down dramatically, but every year since 2006 at least 60% of Americans polled have said that they feel that crime is going up .   And I am among them .  In fact, I wanted to make a video about why crime is going up in the United States only to find, you know, that it's not . Okay so if you are an American, this is how likely you are to die of various causes .  You see violence down there in the bottom right corner .  That's all interpersonal violence: war, terrorism, murder, etc .  Now because victims are disproportionately young, violence becomes a bigger problem if you change this visualization to measure disability-adjusted life years, which is like a measure of how many years of healthy life are lost due to various causes .   But it's still a relatively small public health problem in the United States, smaller than suicide or drug overdoses or asthma or complications from pre-term birth or traffic accidents .   And also, violence is shrinking faster as a cause of death and disability in the United States than any other major cause, except for HIV . So Hank, several studies have shown that on the Internet, we like to share what makes us outraged .   And that incentivizes media companies   to find outrageous stories because we know that you will share them .  I've done this, like in 2010 I made a video about how outrageous it is that we continue to mint pennies even though they cost two cents a piece to make and are never used to buy goods or services . The problem is the penny, while it's an obvious outrage, is an exceedingly small outrage .  I mean the US government could save far more money just passing a long-term highway funding bill, which Congress has been unable to do for the past six years .   But that isn't as narratively simple or as easy to get outraged about, so we don't talk about it much .  And then there is Martin Shkreli, the Bond villain-esque former hedge fund manager, whose company acquired the rights to a drug that treats people with toxoplasmosis and promptly raised the price from $13 . 50 a pill to $750 a pill .  The Internet boiled with outrage until the company promised to lower the price .  Two months later they just announced that for some customers they are going to lower that price all the way down to $375 a pill .   But the outrage at this asshat masked a much more complicated and interesting problem .  Like even before the price hike, the drug cost 30 times more in the US than it did in the UK .   And these price hikes aren't even particularly new or rare .  Long-time Nerdfighters will remember back in 2011 when Warner Chilcott raised the price of its drug Asacol 1200% overnight .  There are dozens of other examples, and this stuff isn't happening because of one individual's asshat-ery .  It's happening because there's a huge web of problems with pharmaceutical markets in the US .  Point being, our collective outrage may have slightly decreased the price of one rarely prescribed drug, but it's done nothing to address the larger issues that affect every American who takes medication . Now of course the Internet can and does grapple with big and complicated problems, and it's also given a voice to people who traditionally have been discriminated against in public discourse .   And I also don't think there's anything wrong with being angry .  Anger combined with sustained effort can lead to real change .   But when we allow ourselves to casually move from one outrage to the next, from pennies to Martin Shkreli, nothing ever really changes . Well, except that maybe we've become more afraid and pessimistic .  Like since January of 2010, crime is down, the US joblessness rate has fallen dramatically, the economy has grown, and we report being happier on average than we were five years ago .   And yet, every single month since January of 2010, more than two-thirds of Americans have felt that the US is headed in the wrong direction .  And I feel like we're unnecessarily inundated with bad news because we seek it out, and when we find it, we share it, and so we become more afraid and pessimistic than we need to be .   But then again, as a nation we've never been healthier or claimed to be happier, so maybe we're getting exactly what we want, even if we don't know it . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . So I realize I'm a smidge biased here, but I really do think books make the best gifts, because they last .  I mean obviously the stories last in your mind, but the books themselves often do too .  I mean I still have the copy of Tom Sawyer mom gave to me when I was ten .   But which books to give ?  Well, it's hard to go wrong, although not impossible, but I have some recommendations for you this Holiday Season . First, my favorite book of the year: Between the World and Me, by Ta-Nehisi Coates, a short, relentless, and brilliant meditation on race and history in the United States . Also in the recommended to everyone on Earth category, The White Boy Shuffle, by Paul Beatty .  This Book is almost 20 years old, but it's still as hilarious and frenetic and heartbreaking as ever and I really think it should be a classic; I've never recommended it to anyone who didn't love it . Okay, moving on .  For the person in your life who loves reading but thinks they hate classics, Death Comes for the Archbishop by Willa Cather and The Color Purple by Alice Walker .  Both these books are captivating and page-turny and intensely moving despite being read in schools . For graphic novel fans, Alison Bechdel's Are You My Mother ?  is the perfect gift for your mother, provided that you and your mother have a very, very dysfunctional relationship .  And I also recommend City of Clowns, illustrated by Sheila Alvarado and written by Daniel Alarcon, who beat me in 1994 in our high school's creative writing contest .  He's since gone on to even greater things, including this brilliant story about a young journalist in Peru grieving his father . Then we have Eugenia Porter's book Beauty From Ashes, which I highly recommend because it is the place where I store my whiskey flask .  If you have a giftee who likes quote-unquote  " literary fiction "  for quote-unquote  " adults " , I have several recommendations, beginning with Hanya Yanagihara .  Her first novel was a very strange book with a deeply unreliable narrator who discovers the secret to eternal life is drinking the blood of a certain kind of turtle .  It's excellent, but her new book, A Little Life, is even better .  I mean, if you thought The Fault in Our Stars was sad, this is sad ! An older book I always like to recommend: Gilead by Marilynne Robinson, which is both an excellent novel and kind of a religious one, which is a very rare combination in my experience . Then there's A Brief History of Seven Killings by Marlon James, which is just a brilliant novel that uses an oral history format to tell this massive sprawling story that all revolves around the shooting of Bob Marley in Jamaica in 1976 . For science fiction fans, or also fans of A Brief History of Seven Killings, I recommend Nalo Hopkinson's Midnight Robber, which is set in a world colonized by Caribbean peoples .  It's really stuck with me and I've just started her book of stories, Falling in Love with Hominids, which is a great title, and so far also a great book . OK, books about art and being an artist .  Sarah and I both really love The Flame Throwers by Rachel Kushner and we also love Just Kids by Patti Smith which I can't find my copy of because ever since we moved, my home library has been very poorly cataloged . Religion: anyone who wants to understand Islamic history or contemporary Islamic thought and practice should really read No god but God by Reza Aslan .  Over the years I've read and reviewed dozens of introductions to Islamic history, this is my favorite . History: I loved Mary Beard's recent history of Ancient Rome, SPQR, although sadly it is also lost somewhere in our home library . For poetry fans, this year I read two books of poetry I absolutely loved, A Thousand Mornings by Mary Oliver and Faithful and Virtuous Night by Louise Gluck .  Glick ?  Glook ?  I don't know .  Both these books are full of precise and profound poems that are moving without ever being pretentious . Young adult novels: I haven't read enough YA this year, but two recent books I really enjoyed: First & Then by Emma Mills AKA Elmify on YouTube which is funny and my kind of romance, and The Boy in the Black Suit by Jason Reynolds which is about a young man who's worn a black suit every day since his mother died . Also it occurs to me there may be a new generation of YA readers who haven't read a bunch of books published ten or more years ago so I have some recommendations on that front .  Valiant: A Modern Tale of Faerie by Holly Black, Ball Don't Lie by Matt de la Pena, The Truth About Forever by Sarah Dessen, and Speak by Laurie Halse  Anderson .  Those are very different books, they'd probably be called respectively a fantasy, a sports book, a romance, and a contemporary realistic book .  But they all make great gifts and with book gifts I'm a big fan of bundling different kinds of things together .  For younger kids, say ten to fourteen, I really love Jacqueline Woodson's Miracle's Boys .   And lastly, Henry's two favorite books of this year were Last Stop on Market Street by Christian Robinson and the aforementioned Matt de la Pena, and the adorable Boot & Shoe by Marla Frazee . You can find links to all these books in the doobly-doo .  Hank, full disclosure, you're getting some of these for Christmas so get excited .  I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank; it's Tuesday .  I'm in my basement wearing a tie which can only mean one thing: it's time for the Bank of Nerdfighteria's semiannual report .      So the Bank of Nerdfighteria is like the U . S .  federal government   and has three branches .  There's the lending branch, the spending branch, and then the giving branch .      Let's start with the lending branch over at kiva . org .  More than 49,000 members of the Nerdfighter Kiva group have loaned more than 6 . 3 million dollars to entrepreneurs in the developing world .  We're the second largest group of all time on the website; you can make loans of as little as $25 to the entrepreneur of your choice, and you have a 99% chance of getting paid back, so it's like a savings account with a -1% interest rate, which is pretty healthy these days .  There is a link in the doobly-doo below to learn more .      OK, on to the spending arm .  So, Hank, our channels Crash Course and SciShow are both primarily supported not by advertising, but by voluntary subscriptions at Patreon .  Basically people who value Crash Course and SciShow and can afford to support them can go to Patreon and do so so that the rest of us can watch it for free .  Hank, lots of people told us that this would never work, but in fact so far, it's working great .  Both Crash Course and SciShow are now not only fully sustainable thanks to Patreon, but we're hoping to be able to expand both of them in 2016 .  So, thank you .  There are also cool perks if you support the shows on Patreon; there's a link in the doobly doo .       And lastly, the giving arm .  So Hank, the 9th annual Project for Awesome starts this Friday at noon Eastern time .    But the fundraising starts at midnight tonight with the launch of Indiegogo with lots of amazing perks with 100% of the proceeds going to benefit the Foundation to Decrease World Suck, which is the real name of our real charity, and yes your donations are tax deductible .  The Foundation to Decrease World Suck has no overhead; everyone who works on it volunteers their time .  All that does it take money we raise during the Project for Awesome and the rest of the year and distribute it out to charities .      This year during the first half of the Project for Awesome, we're raising money for Save the Children and the UN's High Commission on Refugees, and during that half of the P4A your donation will be matched .  Save the Children donors have put up $350,000 of matching donations, and Hank and I are going to match another 250,000 .  So every dollar you donate for the first half of the Project for Awesome will be matched, and then in the second half, we're going to be raising money for charities chosen by you .      Starting on Friday, you can go to projectforawesome . com, watch P4A videos, and vote for your favorites, so that nerdfighteria kind of collectively picks what charities we support .  Also, if you have a charity that you feel strongly about, you should make a Project for Awesome video !  If you make an awesome video explaining why a charity that you care about deserves people's support, it could win lots of money - it happens every year !  You can find lots of resources including Project for Awesome thumbnails and stuff at projectforawesome . com; there's a link in the doobly doo .      Also, during the Project for Awesome, there is a 48 hour livestream, starring Hank and myself and many other people from the YouTube community .  During that 48 hours, you can always find a link to the livestream at projectforawesome . com .  It's the one time of year when you're likely to see my kids cover my face in sharpie .  Ah, I forgot to mention that before it even starts, the Project for awesome is off to a great start because the Foundation to Decrease World Suck already has $80,000 .  Most of that is either fro Nerdcrafteria   or from Vlogbrothers ad revenue, half of which goes to sponsor educational projects online and half of which goes to the foundation, so thank you for watching ads !      So Hank, that's the status of the Bank of Nerdfighteria, I'm very excited for the Project for Awesome, if you have any questions you can leave them in comments I will try to answer them .  I've been pointing at my pants a lot in this video .  Hank you will also see me on Friday because it is my year to make a P4A video .  Hmm, so to even things out and bring order to the universe, I will see you on both next Tuesday and next Friday, then we'll return to normal .  DFTBA .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Friday, the beginning of the 9th annual Project for Awesome .   You can head over to projectforawesome . com to find a link to the 48 hour livestream, info on donating, and all the amazing perks, and of course, to watch and vote for Project for Awesome videos .   Your votes will determine where much of the money raised is donated .    But for the first half of the P4A, we're raising money for Save the Children and the United Nations High Commission on Refugees . So you're probably familiar with the Syrian refugee crisis .   Millions of people have been forced to flee Syria as a result of a horrifying civil war there, and both Save the Children and the UNHCR are providing massive support to refugee camps from Turkey to Jordan to Lebanon, where more than a quarter of the people currently living in the country are refugees, but these organizations both work around the world and today, I wanna focus on Ethiopia . So since 2013, conflict in South Sudan has forced more than 250,000 South Sudanese people to flee to the Gambella region of Ethiopia .   Most have left with only whatever belongings they can carry, and often ferry across the river board in canoes .   This woman, Sarah, explained to a Save the Children employee succinctly why she and her family had to leave .    " The government forces came and started killing people, so we ran away .  " Once they get to Ethiopia, most of these people make their way to a camp, where they then wait to register as refugees .   More than 60% of the refugees arriving in Gambella are children, and many meet this man, Johannus, a child protection officer from Save the Children .    "  And here, they are many unaccompanied minors who are separated from their parents .  "   So Johannus works to help these unaccompanied minors including these boys, all of whom arrived in Ethiopia separated from their families .   It's also Johannus's job to make sure that safe spaces are created and maintained for children who live in the camps .   Within the camps, Save the Children works to provide basic medical care, including measuring physical progress to hopefully limit the stunting that can lead to long-term physical and intellectual disabilities, and also to provide kids with opportunities for play and learning .   Meanwhile, the UNHCR works to get food and basic shelter to the refugees which is a a massive task for a perennially underfunded organization .   For instance, this mother, Mary, explained that there's no firewood to cook with in the camps, and no machines to mill grain .   She said she wants to return to South Sudan where her family was relatively prosperous before the fighting broke out, but it's too dangerous .   I know it's easy to feel hopeless in the face of these complex challenges or to turn away from them .   The global refugee crisis is overwhelming, and it's easy to say that this is not our problem, that these boys are not our boys, but in the past few years, we've seen what human history has shown us again and again, that on this planet, there is no such thing as  " other people's problems "  .   Disease and poverty and violence are shaped by political borders but they cannot be controlled by them .   Whether it's Ebola or antibiotic resistance, or the civil war in Syria, or the refugees in Gamballa, we all lose when we imagine that there are no consequences to turning away from the biggest human challenges .   These unaccompanied children face an exceptionally difficult future, but it is not a hopeless one .   We know it isn't hopeless because we've seen the success that humans have when we come together to support and empower the poorest and most disenfranchised among us .   Infant mortality has gone down by half in the last 25 years .   The percentage of kids in school has skyrocketed, and overall global poverty has diminished, but the global refugee population hasn't been this high since World War II, and more than half of them are children .   These refugees, in accordance with international law and also with whatever higher law might exist, need to be protected .   We can't afford to have a generation of marginalized kids with no access to healthcare or education, and that's why I don't see donations to organizations like Save the Children or the UNHCR as gifts, I see them as investments .   We know that healthier, better educated kids become happier, more productive adults, and we know that the cycle of poverty can be broken, but these kids need our investment .   So I hope you'll join me in supporting them, again, on this, the first day of the Project for Awesome, all the donations to our charity The Foundation to Decrease Worldsuck will be split between Save the Children and the UNHCR, and the money raised after that will go to support charities chosen by you at projectforawesome . com . If you want to make a donation directly to the Foundation, you can do that by clicking on this fancy new card that Google has made .   There's no fee with the transaction, which is amazing, and Google will match every dollar donated through this card up to $100,000, so please help us take some of Google's money, and again, you can go to projectforawesome . com to find the fundraiser there and all the perks and stuff and to follow along with the livestream madness .   Thank you, happy Project for Awesome, and as we say in my hometown of Nerdfighteria, don't forget to be awesome .   Endscreen, Hank always says I should make an endscreen, yes, I know this video was more than 4 minutes long, and therefore, I will probably be punished .   I have accepted this fate .   This is your last chance to use the donation card unless you rewind the video .   I will see you at projectforawesome . com and in the livestream, bye !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . I want to begin by saying that this video contains absolutely no spoilers whatsoever .   Well, except insofar as just being alive is a minor spoiler, on account of how you're connected to every other person on Earth, a growing number of whom have already seen the Star Wars movie .    And, you know, they're now very slightly different for having had that experience, and they're slight differences are causing very slight differences in you, and et cetera, as the Force ripples through the universe, which is actually what I wanna talk about today . So, Hank, I've now seen the new Star Wars movie twice, and I really, really like it, and I'm trying to figure out why .   Alright, this is Joseph Campbell, who wrote a famous book about shared mythologies across cultures and historical eras called The Hero With a Thousand Faces .   Basically, Campbell pointed out that a lot of our most important stories all involve a plot where, I'm just gonna quote him,  " A hero ventures forth from the world of common day into a region of supernatural wonder, fabulous forces are there encountered, and a decisive victory is won .  "   Of course, it can't be too decisive, because, you know, these are movies, and they need sequels, but you get the idea . Campbell's writing about shared mythologies and mythological structures was extremely influential to George Lucas when he was writing the original Star Wars movies, and it shows, I mean, Luke Skywalker follows the heroic journey that Campbell laid out step by step .   So, Hank, I think the original Star Wars trilogy is seen as important today, not just because they're good movies or because the special effects and music are amazing, but because as myth, they are brilliant .   Luke Skywalker gave the hero of a thousand faces yet one more face, and in his story, I got to experience that intoxicating mix of awe and recognition that we seek from myth, right ?   Like, recognition because I too have been a petulant ne'er do well in a boring hometown harboring a dream of going to space, and all because like Lord Vader and the Death Star were intensely awesome in the old fashioned sense of the word that involved fear, but it's also more than that .  Like any good myth, Star Wars helps us to understand and identify ourselves as people .   Consider, for instance, how much the assigning and signaling of personhood matters in the original Star Wars movies, I mean, we feel bad for R2-D2, who is a droid when he is damaged .   We also deeply empathize with Chewie, even though he is not a human and speaks incomprehensibly .    But we don't empathize with the Stormtroopers, even though they're humanoid and speak English because they're not people, they're--actually, we didn't know what they were back in 1977, but we knew that they were not proper people like us and Chewbacca .   Now, of course, the original Star Wars movies did get their fair share of criticisms .   People pointed out that the dialogue was hokey, that the galaxy was astonishingly small and given over to unlikely coincidence, but for me, all that stuff was totally irrelevant .   I mean, the dialogue in Jonah's encounter with the whale also leaves a bit to be desired, but that is so beside the point .    And then the prequels came out, and they did not have the same mythic resonance .   In fact, for many people, they were just, you know, movies .    And as movies, they weren't particularly great .   Honestly, Hank, after those movies, I felt like there couldn't be another good Star Wars movie, because Star Wars had just given to the common myth what it had to give .    But I was wrong, The Force Awakens is so great !   The Force Awakens honors the myth of the hero's journey from the original Star Wars, but it also expand and deepens it .   Along the way, the movie pushes us toward a broader understanding of personhood, of what constitutes us .   In fact, Hank, we saw this in the first teaser footage released months before the movie .   A Stormtrooper removes his helmet and proves to have a very human face .   Those we could dismiss for the first six movies are suddenly inarguably people who are connected to us, and in the movie itself, there's much more .   For instance, we see that the hero with a thousand faces need not be male, or white, or even a petulant ne'er do well .   It's not a perfect movie, of course, the galaxy is still astonishingly small, the dialogue still sometimes clunky, but it's a very effective myth .   Hank, to be honest with you, I've been worried lately that I've grown too old to properly love a movie .   I mean, they're just movies .    But I haven't !   I can still nerd out about a movie I love !   Yes !   Hank, I'll see you on Friday, in the meantime, I'm just gonna say it, may the Force be with you .                 
Good Morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday . So, until a few days ago the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in Southwestern   Oregon was mostly known for it's high quality spring-time bird watching, but then some people with guns decided to take over the refuge's headquarters which is both a big deal- like armed civilians are in control of a federal building, and not that big of a deal- like it's not like the building in question is the U . S Capitol .  Regardless, it gives us a reason to consider some complicated history and how ideas about public and private property have shaped the United States .  So these days Oregon is often seen as one of the most progressive states in the US .  I mean, I judge a city by primarily by the quality of it's soccer support and it's public transportation by which measures Portland, Oregon's capital might be Americas greatest city   .   But as is often true with American history, the deeper you dig the more troubling it gets . Okay, so around a thousand years ago, the Northern Paiute tribes Kucadikadi band moved into what is now the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge .  The first Europeans didn't show up until the 1820s and their arrival, of course, was catastrophic .  Like most American-Indian groups the Kucadikadi were devastated by smallpox and other European diseases .  As many as 90% of them died from disease within 30 years of the first European contact . So by the 1840s, thousands of white settlers had made their way West to Oregon via the Oregon Trail, this 202,000 mile long wagon route that today is primarily famous as a video game in which you almost always die of dysentery .  These settlers encroached on Northern Paiute land and there were some conflicts, but things didn't really pick up until 1850 when the U . S passed the Donation Land Claim Act .  That law granted 320 acres of and to any white man who settled and cultivated the land for at least 4 years, and married couples could get 640 acres of land .  There were a bunch of laws like this; white settlement in Oregon increased dramatically, and by 1859, it became a state . Quick side note: Oregon's first state constitution contained some of the most shameful language in American history .  For example, it outlawed black Americans even visiting Oregon .  It was technically illegal for African Americans to move to Oregon until 1926 .  But right, so by 1859 there were all these new white settlers in Oregon thanks to the federal government's land grants .   And not to state the obvious or anything, but inherent to the idea that the US federal government could give land to these white settlers was the idea that the land in question was the US Government's to give .  The idea of federally owned territory is established in the Constitution, and even today a LOT of the United States is owned by the federal government . Speaking of which, in 1872, the Northern Paiute tribe signed a treaty with the United States Government establishing a 1 . 8 million acre reservation called, get this, the Malheur Reservation .  The US government abided by this treaty for all of zero minutes with settlers immediately encroaching on the reservation .   And then, after an 1878 war won by the US Army, the remaining Northern Paiute were taken off their land and forcibly moved to Washington state .  About 100 Northern Paiute families were allowed to return to Southwestern   Oregon at the end of the 19th century, but today their reservation is less than 1% of its original size and their tribe has just 349 living members . So in summary, for 800ish years, what is now the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge was Northern Paiute land .  First, because they were the only people living there, and then because they negotiated control over the land in a treaty with the US Government .  The US Government then won a war, deported the remaining Native Americans, and took control of the land, which it held until 1908 when President Teddy Roosevelt declared it to be a refuge for birds .  That Teddy Roosevelt, he loved birds, especially hunting them . So that was the history of the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge until a few days ago when it became the de facto headquarters of a militia claiming that the US government has no right to own federal land .  Hank, there are many compelling arguments to be had about government infringing upon the rights of citizens, but this is not one of them .  So this militia argues that there's something tyrannical about a representative government telling the people is supposedly represents to do or not do things on certain land .  Like, if the government is of the people and by the people, then how can the government prevent me, a person, for doing whatever I want on federal land ?  The answer, of course, is that the land doesn't just belong to you, it belongs to all of us and collectively we've decided what to do with it .  This is in accordance with the US Constitution which states pretty explicitly that the US Congress shall have the power to, and I quote,  " dispose and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States .  "   And throughout US history the Supreme Court has consistently upheld the idea of federally owned and managed land .  The counterargument I've seen most often is that land should belong to the people who use it, not to the government .  Which isn't so different from the way the Northern Paiute treated land for most of Oregon's human history .  However, the people using the land in question would still be the Northern Paiute if the US Army hadn't intervened on be half of white settlers in the 19th century .  In American history there is no escaping that fundamental fact: our government took this land from sea to shining sea, whether through purchase or war or forced deportation or dishonest treaties .   And then it apportioned some of that land up as private property .  If the federal government has no right to federal lands and never did, then they never had the right to give away millions of acres to white settlers in the 19th century .  This would render much of American private property illegitimate, including by the way, probably my house . Hank, it seems to me that if the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge's Headquarters Building doesn't belong to the federal government that built and paid for it, then that building and the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge and in fact much of Southwestern   Oregon belongs, not to a militia, but the the 349 surviving members of the tribe that has lived on that land for most of its history . Hank, I'll see you on Friday                
Good morning, Hank; it's Tuesday .  So I saw the Star Wars movie again this weekend and on my fourth viewing I noticed something really troubling . By the way, this video contains no significant spoilers unless you go to the movies primarily to see people separated from their limbs, but even then: very mild spoilers . Lots of people have complained that The Force Awakens is just a rehash of the original Star Wars movie, right ?  Even the creator of Star Wars, George Lucas, said  " They wanted to do a retro-movie .  I don't like that .  " Now I think that view of the movie oversimplifies it, but here's the thing, if it's such a rehash, where are all the severed hands !  ?  I severed my own hand by accident over here but I still got it !  Don't worry . So Hank as you pointed out in a video more than five years ago, the first six Star Wars movies contain no fewer than 13 severed Hands .  Like Anakin Skywalker, despite having two total hands, manages to get one of his hands cut off three separate times .  There's even a phrase in the Star Wars Universe for using your lightsaber to amputate an opponent's hand: cho mai . So Hank 3750 years ago the Babylonian King Hammurabi developed a legal code that famously uses an eye for an eye approach to legal retaliation .   And the Star Wars Universe is kind of similar except it's a hand for a hand .  Like it's no coincidence that over the course of the movies Anakin Skywalker also chops off three hands .  In Star Wars the number one way to risk amputation of your own hand is to amputate someone else's hand .  Well, unless you're Obi-Wan Kenobi who, by my count, removes nine separate limbs from people while somehow managing to remain a tetrapod - which yes, is the word for animals with four limbs . So anyway, when George Lucas has been asked about this he always just says  " Well that's what happens when you play with swords !  "  Which you know, fair enough, but there's plenty of swordplay in The Force Awakens and yet EVERY SINGLE HAND remains attached to it's body for the entire movie !  IT'S UNCONSCIONABLE ! Meanwhile, Marvel movies have begun chopping off hands as an homage to Star Wars and no, I am not making that up .  In fact Marvel Studios president Kevin Feige has said that it's because of Star Wars that all the so-called  " Phase Two "  Marvel movies feature an arm amputation .  Captain America: Winter Soldier definitely, Guardians of the Galaxy check, Iron Man 3 yes   and Ant-Man kinda .  .  .  insofar as somebody loses an arm just before losing the rest of themselves .  Nobody's harshing on those movies for their nostalgia . Hank, as previously noted, I really liked The Force Awakens .  It is at times nostalgic but I don't think nostalgia is all bad .  In fact I'd argue the original Star Wars was also nostalgic, it hearkened back to American Westerns and to some nonexistent bygone era when good was really good and evil was really evil .  Really if it hadn't been for the inexcusable failure to chop off any hands, The Force Awakens would have been a great movie . So Hank I think some of the blowback is just due to the movie's commercial success, most people are never comfortable loving something unironically, especially when it becomes quite popular .  But I think George Lucas's feelings about The Force Awakens are probably about something deeper and not directly related to its lack of severed hands .  Basically I think it's really hard for creators - even very successful ones - to see their work go out into the world and be loved for reasons they didn't intend .  Like I've found that one of the pleasures and terrors of writing for an audience is that the book someone reads is never quite the book you wrote .  Inevitably people bring their own experiences and expectations and desires to a story and in that process they change it . To use an extreme example, when I was in high school I read The Great Gatsby and I thought it was crap .  That wasn't The Great Gatsby's fault .  On the other hand, Hank, when we were little kids we watched the movie Grease 2 over and over and over again on VHS .   And by forging that mediocre movie in the smithy of our souls, we were somehow able to make it great .  Now of course that isn't to minimize the responsibility of creators to their creations, it's just to say that once you've done your best and something is out in the world, you have to let it go . Basically Hank to me making stuff is like a Wookiee .  If you try to hold onto the stuff you make with too tight a grip, it'll rip your arms right off .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . So I spent last week in Davos, Switzerland .  Which most of the time is a fairly standard Alpine ski village; there are souvenir shops, babies in sleds, horse restaurant cults, and you know, alps .  But one week a year, Davos is taken over by the world economic forum, a strange and wondrous throng of CEOs, world leaders, scientists, and a lot of security guards who are ostensibly coming together to improve the state of the world . Much of the action happens behind closed doors where like, EU and American diplomats try to hammer out a compromise over internet privacy concerns for instance, or CEOs work out business deals; but the whole town is transformed for this week into a fevered pitch for investment, and growth, and change .   We're told to think India, but also think Mexico and Kazakhstan and particular regions of India, and also think Sales Force and Microsoft and Accenture and Bank of America and on and on .  There was an intensity to the whole thing I'd never really felt before, it was a week of business and politics and activism smashing together .   And everyone seemed to feel that they could actually change history, like increase prosperity, achieve gender parody, educate the world .   And of course there's something naive about all that, but as I heard an artist say at one point in Davos,  " Perhaps naivete isn't something to be ashamed of, but something to embrace .  " The other thing Davos gets a lot of flack for is it's elitism and there was a weird wealthy provincialism about some of the people I met .  For instance, they kept asking me where I was based, rather than where I lived, as if the life of a Davos man - and they are overwhelmingly male - was too international and sophisticated to just like live somewhere .   And then when I explained that I lived in Indianapolis people almost always asked  " Why ?  !  "  I resisted the urge to say partly because of people like you asking questions like that . In general I found the social hierarchies of it all exhausting at times .  Like of all the ways the billionaire class could have organized their social order they seemed to have chosen as a model the American middle school .   And yet it was wonderful, it was wonderful to see so many people attending concise and clear minding discussions of why climate change is happening and how its going to change human and non-human life It was wonderful to see the global goals posted everywhere reminding us of the commitments that we have made to ourselves and it was wonderful to meet with representatives of save the children and the UN's refugee agency to learn about the big challenges of improving the healthcare and education of the world's most vulnerable people . Also I learned tons about everything from virtual reality movies being made in refugee camps, to research being done on peer learning, to the perils of economic inequality .   And one particular recommendation: after I met the filmmaker Sharmeen Obaid-Chinoy at Davos I watched her Oscar nominated documentary about honor killing in Pakistan and it is one of the most powerful movies I have ever seen . Right, but anyway Hank, all week long I kept thinking about Qurram Hussain who was a father living in the Annawadi slum in Mumbai and at one point in her book Behind the Beautiful Forevers Katherine Boo reports Hussain as saying,  " Everybody in Annawadi talks like this- Oh, I will make my child a doctor, a lawyer, and he will make us rich .  It's vanity, nothing more .  Your little boat goes West and you congratulate yourself, 'What a navigator I am ! ' and then the wind blows you East .  " Again and again at Davos I found myself up against the ancient question of whether people make history or history makes people and how power and poverty shape our answers . Now I know this is easier to say from a privileged position up high in the alps, but I do believe that human progress is possible even if it isn't inevitable .   And I remain both convinced of, and deeply moved by, the radical hope that has defined so much human effort over the millennia .  For me this is actually typifying by Sharmeen's movie which inspired the Prime Minister of Pakistan to finally, belatedly, denounce honor killing which is a small but real step toward a better world . Hank, in the coming weeks I'm going to look at the big problems I left Davos thinking about, income inequality, climate change, the refugee crisis, and the ways gender inequality effect poverty . Nerdfighters let me know in comments if there are other global human challenges you'd like to see us discuss . Hank, I have the jet lag, so I'm going to take a nap, I will see you on Friday .  
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .   So a while back I said in a video,  " In the United States women make seventy-seven cents for every dollar that men make in the workforce, "  and a lot of people pushed back in comments .   You know,  " the wage gap is a lie " ,  " that myth has been debunked " ,  " your an idiot "  with no apostrophe, etc .   Anyway now after a lot of reading I am going to attempt to share what I have learned about the gender pay gap hopefully without inciting a flame war in the comments .   This whole question is fiendishly complex and people far smarter than I am have spent their whole careers devoted to it, but I want to begin with a broad observation .   There is a gender pay gap among full time workers around the world, but the size of the gender pay gap varies dramatically by country .   Like in New Zealand women working full time make on average ninety cents for every dollar that a man working full time makes; whereas, in South Korea that number is just sixty-two cents .   When it comes to calculating the pay gap in the United States, a lot depends on what exactly you are calculating .   Like by hourly wage the pay gap is about sixteen percent .   By weekly take-home pay it is between eighteen and nineteen percent .   By annual earnings it's around twenty-one percent .   The fuzziness here speaks to the complexity of what we're about to get into, but basically men on average work more hours than women on average .   Actually, nope, they don't, but men work more paid hours .   Right, but so this sixteen to twenty-one percent number just looks at all full-time workers .   It doesn't account for differences in education or skills or experience or occupation, and when you factor all that stuff in the pay gap shrinks to somewhere between four and eight percent depending on who is doing the math .   This is the so called 'unexplained' pay gap, that is there is no economic explanation for it, and most non-partisan analyses agree that this part of the pay gap is directly due to gender discrimination .   By the way you can find links to lots of sources in the doobly-doo .  But yeah, that four to eight percent number might sound low, but even on the extremely conservative end it would mean that women lose over two hundred forty-one million dollars of pay every year due to direct discrimination .   I should add here that there is also a wide racial pay gap in the United States, and as discussed in this Vlog Brothers video, there is overwhelming evidence that much of that gap is due to direct discrimination .   Because race and gender affect people long before they enter the workforce, it is difficult to disentangle causes here, but we do know that women of color are doubly disadvantaged when it comes to pay regardless of skill level, experience, or education .   Right, so a portion of the gender wage gap is attributable to discrimination in the United States, but most of it is ostensibly about choice; choice of college majors or flexibility when it comes to hours or occupation, and this is what people generally mean when they talk about debunking the gender wage gap .   Women on average work fewer hours and tend to work in less lucrative professions from school teaching to care-giving; whereas, men are more likely to work in higher paying fields like engineering or anesthesiology .    And some of the pay gap can be found here like in one study in more than a hundred twenty professions, more women than men worked in nine of the ten lowest paying jobs, but of course that isn't only about choice .   It's also about the expectations of the social order .   Like why are there more female nurse anesthetist but more male anesthesiologists ?    And then there is the fact that even within almost all of these professions the pay gap persists from computer programmers to teachers to lawyers .   Some of this is the aforementioned 'unexplained' pay gap but some of it is because men on average work more paid hours than women which brings us to the question of unpaid work . The average adult American woman spends one hundred sixty-seven minutes per day on housework or care for household members .   For the average adult American male it's a hundred one minutes per day .    And that work, even though it's unpaid, is of course very real .   Now none of this is to criticize the many women and many men who work fewer hours or don't work in the labor force at all to focus on child care or housework .   It's only to say that women doing a disproportionate amount of the unpaid labor in the United States inevitably distorts the paid labor market .   We see this especially clearly in studies of what happens to workers after they have kids .   With each child a family has women see their average income relative to men go down .   It goes down about seven point five percent after the first child .   There have been a ton of studies exploring this, but I just want to highlight one .   In 2007 a Stanford professor sent out fictitious resumes to various firms and found that female applicant with children were less likely to be offered positions and when offered jobs were offered lower starting salaries .   Men meanwhile actually seemed to fair better after they have children in both employment opportunities and wages .   This may also be part of the reason that the pay gap gets worse over time .   It's near ten percent from young adulthood until about the age of thirty-five when it suddenly jumps up .   Like one study looking at business school graduates found that right out of school there was a relatively small gap but then eight years later it was much much larger .    And interestingly even in careers dominated by women, men disproportionately advanced to supervisory roles .   Like most librarians are women, but male librarians are disproportionately likely to become library directors .    And there are still large pay gaps within in careers that employ mostly women from nursing to librarianship .   In fact, unless you really cheery-pick the data, a real and consistent pay gap exists across almost all fields, at all education levels, at all ages, and at the current rate of change this wage gap won't close in the United States until 2058 .   In short, Hank, there is a gender pay gap, but it is not as simple as women making seventy-seven or seventy-nine cents for every dollar men make .   Instead it's an extremely complicated web of interwoven factors .   Some of the pay gap is attributable to positive, empowered choice that individual women make to work less or to work in fields they find more fulfilling .   Much of it is due to direct discrimination against women especially mothers .    And much of it is also due to the way our social order constructs gender and our expectations of women, and that is something we can change together by, for instance, embracing the idea that there's no reason for the social order to saddle women with most of the world's unpaid work .    And we can also examine the real personal and systemic biases that are distorting the way that we look at women in the workplace and outside of it .   So the gender pay gap is complicated, and it's integrated with many other socioeconomic phenomena, but make no mistake .   It is real .   Hank, I'll see you on Friday .    
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday . So as you know, we have a podcast: Dear Hank And John, or as I prefer to think of it, DearJohn AndHank, and on that podcast, I recently confessed that instead of pouring milk on my cereal, I use water .    Now, Nerdfighteria is generally a very supportive community but their condemnation of my cereal eating habits was swift and nearly universal .  People sent in scientific studies supposedly proving you're supposed to eat cereal with milk .   And then there was this vine which recreated one person's experience of eating cereal with water .    But along the way, Hank, I learned that there is a secret community of people like me out there .  According to one study, 13% of Americans put coffee in their cereal .  Another 12%% use orange juice !  I even heard of some people who use lemon-lime Gatorade, so today I'm going to taste test all of ways of moistening cereal . Which cereal ?  Well I chose Raisin Bran because it toes the line between healthy and delicious .  I mean, you know it's healthy because it has bran in the title but you know it's delicious because it has more calories, sugar and sodium than Lucky Charms .  Speaking of which, I also picked up some Lucky Charms because it turns out it's healthy .  Testing, testing  Okay, so first off we have Raisin Bran mixed with delicious, safe American tap water .  Note: only safe and delicious in certain jurisdictions .  Ah !  It's so good !  I just love Raisin Bran with water .  It is delicious ! That is just absolutely magnificent .  Five raisins !   Next up, we're going to mix up our Raisin Bran with some Florida orange juice .  .  .  Ugh !  No !  NO !  Two great ingredients that when mixed together just turn out horribly .  For me the orange juice is one raisin out of five, and even that's a little generous .   Okay, up third: Raisin Bran with lemon-lime Gatorade .  In general, I'm a big Gatorade fan, and because I'd just had the orange juice, it was so much better by comparison that it was almost good, but it still wasn't good .  Two raisins out of five .   Fourth up, hot black coffee straight from my AFC Wimbledon mug into the Raisin Bran !  I've got to say, for me this tasted almost exclusively like coffee and not at all like Raisin Bran, but whatever !  I like coffee and it's fine in bran form .  Three raisins out of five .    And then lastly, we have Raisin Bran mixed with cow's milk .  Agh !  It's just disgusting and so rich !  It tastes like I'm eating cake or something .  I just- that's not breakfast !  I'm going to give milk two raisins out of five . By the way, Sarah just built a Louvre out of Legos and then Henry and I attacked it with a Clone army !  Conclusion  So there you have it, Hank .  According to a scientific study of my taste buds, the best liquid to pour on your Raisin Bran is water, followed in order by coffee, lemon-lime Gatorade, that stuff that comes out of the nether regions of a cow, and orange juice .  Now, Hank, you said on the podcast that you tried cereal with water and you didn't like it- you're a milk guy- so we have an intractable disagreement .   But I think we're going to continue to respect each other and to collaborate anyway, and there may be a lesson in that .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .  
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . I'm at the beach and it's very pretty here, but my vacation has been completely consumed by this book - The Parable of the Sower by Octavia  Butler - which is the best book I've read in, I don't know, in years . Like, every now and again I'll read a book and literally feel like a spell has been cast upon me that allows me to escape the prison of my self .   And for a little while I will not feel stuck inside my own consciousness, but instead I'll feel like I have magical access to worlds outside of me .   And I find that feeling to be a tremendous consolation .   And then when the book ends I'm left with this weird wobby-sobby feeling, like I'm overwhelmed with the mysterium tremendum of having seen and having been seen .   And I also feel this big sadness in my chest, maybe partly because I know I'll never get to read that book again for the first time .   But also partly because I don't know how long it'll be until I come across a novel again that properly turns me inside out . Now of course Hank the books that leave me floored aren't always gonna be the ones that leave you floored, but I do think you would love this particular book if you haven't read it already .  The Parable of the Sower is a hard book to summarize: it's a coming of age story; it's also a dystopian novel about the collapse of the United States; it's about race and class and gender and wealth .  It's also about how religions form, and even though it's more than twenty years old, Hank, it's terrifyingly contemporary .  Right but anyway, throughout this very page-turny roaring adventure-y novel, the narrator writes short poems about her understanding of God, which she defines as change .  I usually dislike that kind of novelistic device, but  Butler is such a beautiful writer that it succeeds brilliantly .  Like, consider this magnificent short poem, Hank: " In order to rise from its own ashes,A phoenix first must burn .  " I wanna share just two more lines with you .  First, like The Great Gatsby, The Parable of the Sower begins with a fictional epigraph, which concludes,  " Without positive obsession, there is nothing at all .  "  Hank, one of my favorite things about you is your positive obsession, a . k . a .  your nerdiness .  Like, you have this ability to be unironically enthusiastic and to find stuff that you can be strongly in favor of .   And you aren't the kind of person that tears down without building up .  Like, when we were in high school, I felt like in order to survive I had to create ironic distance between myself and the world .  You know, like if you told me you liked a band, I'd be like,  " Yeah, their old stuff was good but now they've sold out, "  or if you told me you liked an author, I would tell you what was wrong with their work, etc .   But Hank, you've encouraged me to let go of that and throughout my entire adult life, you've really been a model for positive obsession - kind of even a guiding star at times - so thank you . The second line is a simple one: as the narrator's line is falling apart, she writes,  " Kindness eases change .  "  Hank, I'm really sorry that Lemon is dying .  I know that she's just a dog, but she's a great dog .   And in the comments of your video on Friday I saw so many people whose kindness is easing this awful change .  It made me think about Lemon's life - like, she was a racing greyhound, which often isn't the best dog life, but then when she retired she came into your life .   And just as you've made Lemon's life better, she's made your life better . We often imagine the world as a zero sum game, as a place where good news for someone is necessarily bad news for someone else .   But I believe that kindness can change that arithmetic, and as evidence I would point to the love that Lemon's life has brought to you and to many .  The internet can be a hard place to find kindness - maybe especially right now - but I believe it's worth fighting for, because I believe it makes the world bigger and that it eases the hard but inevitable changes that define life . Nerdfighters, thank you for your kindness .  Hank, I love you; I love Lemon .  I'll see you on Friday .                 
Cut myself shaving for the 761st time .  Stupid shaving always ruining everything . Good Morning Hank, It's Tuesday . So 2000 years ago something like half of people died before the age of 5 .  1800 years later, in 1800, the global under 5 mortality rate had gone down from somewhere around 50% all the way down to somewhere around 43%, but then it began declining dramatically like by 2013 the Global Child Mortality Rate wasn't 50% or 43% .  It was 3 . 4% .  In wealthy Countries it's under 1% .  How did this happen ?  Well in the new annual letter from Melinda and Bill Gates, Bill Argues persuasively that the key to these big changes in Health and development was and is energy .  The whole letter is fascinating, you should read it there's a link in the doobly doo, but I wanna highlight a few big points .  So okay there are about 1 . 3 billion people how don't have regular access to the kinds of energy that most of us take for granted, and that has a huge impact on their lives .  Like without electricity, kids can't study after dark, except by candlelight, and they can't access online resources like Wikipedia .  Without tractors and energy-intensive fertilizer, people grow less food .   And without running water, it's almost impossible to sterilize healthcare centers, so it's no surprise that the 18% of humans living without regular electricity are more likely to die of preventable diseases and malnutrition and much less likely to have access to good schools .  They are also, by the way, disproportionately affected by climate change, which is especially unfair .  You know, because by and large they haven't experienced that much benefit from the fossil fuel consumption that's a big driver of climate change .  For instance, the average person in Bangladesh uses 98 . 8% less oil than the average American .   And therein lies what I think will be the biggest question of this century: How do we get energy solutions to the 1 . 3 billion who don't yet have them while also dramatically reducing carbon emissions ?  The answer ?  Lots and lots of people trying lots and lots of solutions, most of which will fail, but a few of which will hopefully succeed spectacularly .  Otherwise we're in big trouble . So Hank, back in 1800, you probably would have been one of the 43% of people who didn't live to age five .  You had a bunch of serious infections as a kid .  This would have been bad for you obviously, but it also would have been somewhat bad news for the rest of us because you've gone on to do some cool stuff .  Companies you started employ a lot of people, you've helped me and many others understand important scientific concepts, you invented 2D glasses, which allow people to see 3D movies in a crisp two dimensions, et cetera !   And basically, advances in health and development have allowed the world to contain more Hanks, which is great, but now we need even more of them .  We need as many Hanks as we can get !  Because we know from history that when lots and lots of innovators work on big problems they find big solutions .   And that leads me to the second half of this year's Gates letter, which is about time, specifically how poverty is worsened by gender disparities when it comes to time .  So Melinda Gates points out that globally women spend twice as much time on unpaid work as men .  This gap is largest in poor countries, where work like getting water, chopping wood, cooking, and cleaning is mostly done by women .   And as Melinda points out, assigning most unpaid work to women harms everyone because of what's known as opportunity cost .  When girls are walking hours every week to get water, those are hours they can't spend in school or studying .  If men and women are equally able to innovate and create  , gender bias definitionally limits economic growth .  Gender bias isn't just wrong ethically, it means less innovation, fewer jobs, and less inclusive governance .  To address this problem, Melinda advocates recognizing, reducing, and redistributing . First, we need to recognize that unpaid work is work .  Second, we need to reduce the time needed to do such work, and third, we need to redistribute that work more evenly between women and men .  Hank, I think we're gonna look back on energy and gender equity as two of the biggest challenges of the 21st century .   But right now, we're not just struggling to solve those problems .  Too often, we're refusing to acknowledge they exist .   And that has to change now if the next 200 years are going to continue the successes of the previous 200 .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .  
Good morning Hank it's Tuesday .  I'm just back from a trip to northern Jordan with UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, where I got to know a few of the 635,000 Syrian refugees currently living in Jordan .   And in the coming weeks, I'll be sharing several of their stories .   But as today is International Women's Day, I want to focus on these two girls .  Twelve year old Majeeda and her ten year old sister, Aida . Aida and Majeeda arrived at the Azraq Refugee Camp the day before I met them but before that they'd spent more than four months in limbo at the border .  Their father, Abu Majed, described the situation there as  " cold, hunger, and constant thirst "  .  That morning they registered in the camp which involves everything from iris scans to identify them, to finding an available shelter .  Try getting a four year old boy to stand still for an iris scan by the way .  When I asked Aida and Majeeda's parents what the family's most urgent needs were they answered only that they wanted the kids to get into school .   And this was a theme among almost every refugee I met .  The day before in the Za'atari Refugee Camp, I had met with the Tiger Group, in which girls are mentored by young women .   And when I asked the girls what they wanted most, Aryam and Farah both answered immediately:  " To learn .  " When I asked Nahid, a mother of young children who volunteers as a teacher, what she wants for her kids she said:  " I want them to have a good education .  "  Syria used to be a well educated nation but the civil war has changed that .  Aida has never been to school .  She was only five when the war began .  Majeeda has also been out of school for many years . When I later asked Aida what she wanted now that she was safe in the camp, she didn't say electricity or food or rest, she said:  " We need to study .  "   And while they will be able to study at the camp, it won't be easy .  The schools are underfunded which means that classes only meet for half of each day and class sizes are often huge .  There are sometimes over seventy-five students in a primary school classroom .   None the less, school will be welcome .  I mean for the past four months these kids had to walk ten kilometers almost every day to find firewood at the border, and before that they had moved around Syria for years trying to stay safe . When I asked Aida if she'd lost friends in the war, she smiled and nodded and started try to explain but then she began to cry .  I felt terrible even for having asked the question but then again I want you to know .  I want you to know that there should be another sister here .   And yet I also want you to know that Aida and Majeeda have rich, complex lives that aren't mere tragedies .  They're friendly and and warm kids and they smiled a lot, especially later in the day when I visited them in their shelter, a small but safe single room .  They joked with each other and played with their little brothers .  They taught me their favorite childhood game, a Syrian version of hide and seek .   And when I asked Aida what message she would want to share with American children her age our interpreter Nida told me she said:  " We just want to go to school .  We just want to have a life .  "  This is not such a big ask, of course, but it's hard to deliver .  The UN Refugee Agency remains critically underfunded and Syrian Refugees aren't legally allowed to work in Jordan where the unemployment rate was already high even before the crisis .   So education isn't the only challenge .  I mean when I asked Nahid about the unique difficulties female refugees face she said  " The first thing is that there's no electricity, so we have to wash clothes by hand .  " Syrian refugees have seen the time needed for unpaid work, from cooking to cleaning, increase dramatically .   And that work, as elsewhere in the world, is disproportionately done by women .  Kids are often pulled from school to help with chores or find whatever paid work they can .  That shortens the number of years of formal education kids receive and narrows their future career opportunities .   And this is what people mean when they talk about a lost generation of Syrian youth .   But of course they aren't lost because we know where they are .  They are here in Azraq .  They are waiting in desperate conditions on the border .  They are in Germany, in Sweden, in Lebanon and Turkey .   And most of all in Syria .   And we must help them get the nutrition, shelter, and education they need to grow into a generation that will help rebuild their country . Investing in girls like Aida and Majeeda isn't just good for them, it's vital for all of us .  We can do this by supporting UNHCR in their critical and underfunded mission to support refugees around the world .   But we also do it by acknowledging the full humanity of refugees .  As Aida told me, we just want to have a life, but you can't have a life when the world doesn't accept that you're a person as valuable as any other, when the world treats you as  " other "  or  " less than "  .  We must fight that dehumanization, not least because to see the humanity in others is to glimpse it within ourselves . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday and I have strep throat, which I rate zero out of ten not recommended .  So your video about the political situation in Brazil made me think about the political situation here in the United States .  Specifically the tortuously long Kafkaesque process through which the two major political parties in the United States determine their nominees for president . Delving deeply into the whole assorted affair would take like a month, so today we're just going to look at one state, Missouri .  Last week the people of Missouri voted in their presidential primaries and on the Republican side, Donald Trump beat Ted Cruz state wide by about 0 . 19% and on the Democratic side Hillary Clinton beat Bernie Sanders by a similar margin .   But what actually matters for becoming your parties nominee is not how many votes you get, but how many delegates are pledged to you because the nominees are not actually chosen by voters, they are chosen by delegates at the parties' national conventions in July .  The Republicans are meeting in Cleveland and the Democrats in Philadelphia .  On the Republican side there will by 2473 of these delegates voting at the convention and on the Democratic side there will be 4765 ish, it depends a little bit on if anybody dies . Right, so despite only winning the state wide primary by 0 . 2% Hillary Clinton emerged from Missouri with 47 delegates to Bernie Sanders 35 .  In fact she would've won more delegates than Sanders even if she lost by 0 . 2% because the Missouri Democratic party has named 13 so called super-delegates who can support whomever they want at the convention and most of them have endorsed Clinton .  Missouri's super delegates include the state's governor Jay Nixon, senator Claire McCaskill and like other prominent members of the state's Democratic party .  Then there are the 71 delegates who actually represent Missouri's Democratic primary voters .  By state party rule, their votes are split proportionately according to the results, so if Clinton had gotten 100% of the vote, she would have gotten all 71 delegates but she just barely beat Sanders, so instead she got 36 delegates to his 35 .  This year in Missouri there were about 8800 Democratic votes for each of these 71 pledged delegates .  Which means that at the party's convention in Philadelphia, Governor Jay Nixon will have, you know, around 8800 times more power than the average Democratic voter in Missouri and not to belabor the obvious or anything, that's not a power distribution generally associated with the word democracy .  But wait, there's more .  Over on the Republican side Donald Trump beat Ted Cruz very narrowly state wide but emerged with 37 delegates to Cruz's 15 .   And John Kasich, who got 10% of the vote, won no delegates at all .   But it wasn't all bad news for Kasich, because on the same day, in Ohio, he got 47% of the Republican vote but all of the state's 66 delegates .  That's because the rules of the Republican state party in Ohio dictate that whoever gets the most votes gets all the delegates whereas the rules created by the state party in Missouri dictate that if no one gets 50%, the winner gets 12 delegates .   And then 5 delegates go to the winner of each of Missouri's eight congressional districts .  Trump won the state and five of the congressional districts ergo 37 delegates . Alright, this is going to get a little complicated .  Bit of context for non-Americans .  There are 435 congressional districts in the United States .  Each of these districts elects a congressperson every two years who goes to Washington and fails to pass a budget .  Presumably they also do other things but the main thing is to make sure that we don't accidentally pass a budget .  Each state gets a number of congressional districts based on their population and after the 2010 census it was determined that a smaller percentage of Americans lived in Missouri so they lost a congressional district .  While fast-growing states like Arizona and Florida gained districts .   But this losing a district offered the state of Missouri an opportunity to redraw its congressional boundaries .  Back in 2010 there were six congressional districts represented by Republicans and 3 represented by Democrats .  If one of those had to go, the Republicans obviously wanted it to be a majority Democratic district .  Which is what happened because one, they controlled the state legislator and two, one of the Democratic congresspeople helped them because in that process, his district became even more Democratic .  You know, now he's less likely to lose his job .  Today congressional districts in Missouri are drawn mostly in a way that makes the elections within them extremely lopsided .  Like in 2014 the first congressional district in Missouri voted 73% to 21% for the Democrat .  The third district, meanwhile, voted 68% to 27% for the Republican etc .   But per Republican state party rules, no matter which district you win you get the same five delegates .  Like in Missouri's first congressional district about 34,000 Republican votes were cast .  In the seventh district it was closer to 150,000 .  So just be virtue of living in the first district instead of the seventh, your Republican primary vote is five times more powerful . In short, Hank, all of this is extremely complicated and none of it is particularly democratic .  At least not in the straightforward way we usually imagine democracy .  Political parties are weird institutions in the United States .  Like they're simultaneously public organizations and private clubs .  They make their own rules, the rules are constantly changing but in many cases the rules are regulated by the states .   And political parties are powerful but only insofar as their supporters allow them to have power .  Also they don't really have card-carrying members but almost every nationally elected figure belongs to one of them .  Now some of this is a legacy from a time when the United States was openly suspicious of what we now call voting rights .  I mean, for most of American history, most adults couldn't vote and political parties served partly as a check against revolution or radical change .  In fact the nominating process has become much more democratic over time .  Like, as recently as 1968 only 34% of Republican delegates were chosen by primaries and only 38% of Democratic delegates .   And for the last ten election cycles in both parties the person with the most overall primary and caucus support has also been the eventual nominee .   But that may not be the case this year and it remains to be seen who will actually wield the power when the party and the people disagree . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  It's Question Tuesday, the day that I answer 50 real Snapchats from real Snapchatters .  Let's get right to it . Favorite thing about Indianapolis ? Race day ! Favorite TV show ? The Americans .  Not just the best show about spies on TV, also the best show about marriage on TV . How are the puff levels ? Little too high, actually .  Hold on .    Yeah, that's better . Any great movies to recommend ? I really love both Dope and The End of the Tour . Why do you love writing ? For me it's like the number one way of escaping the prison of my consciousness . Biggest lesson from the refugee camps ? I'd never really considered the horror of dislocation .  Like it's one thing to experience trauma inside your community and in a social structure you understand, but it's totally different to experience loss in a place that isn't yours surrounded by people you don't know . Where do you see yourself in 10 years ? I don't know, but I know what I want to be doing on Tuesdays . Favorite YA debut of 2016 ? It hasn't come out yet but Spontaneous is the best book about spontaneous combustion you will ever read . Hints about your new book ? Uh, it concerns the White River . When's it gonna come out ? I don't know, not this year . What do you think of Hamilton ? It's just so astonishingly good !  It's so nuanced and rich and the songs are so catchy ! Favorite Hamilton song ? That's like asking me to pick between my kids, but I am pretty fond of the cabinet meeting rap battles . Can you name a character in your new book Avery ? No, I can't just, like, choose .  .  .  Actually, you know, I kind of like that name .  Maybe . How many Katherines qualifies as an abundance ? Mmm .  19, possibly 18 . What was your childhood best friend's name ? Yeah, no .  That adorable puppy filter is not going to trick me person who is clearly trying to learn the answer to my security questions . What was your dream job as a kid ? Earthworm scientist . How would you get away with murder ? Well given that 40% of murders in Indianapolis go unsolved it's apparently not that difficult . Favorite piece of furniture ? This La-Z-Boy in which I've written at least part of all my books and which was described by The New Yorker as quote  " grubby "  and quote  " oatmeal-colored "  and by The Wall Street Journal as quote  " tan "  .  That's right, my La-Z-Boy's been covered by some of America's finest periodicals, and yet does La-Z-Boy send me recliners for free ?  No they don't . Should I read The Fountainhead ?  But there are so many good books . What's your opinion on sporks ? I guess I just feel like they're not very good at two things . Honest opinion on Donald Trump ? I'm reminded of something Cyrus Ching once said:  " Never wrestle with a pig .  You get filthy, and besides the pig likes it .  " What's your favorite reading position . This . Do you write with music or in silence ? Usually silence, occasionally The Mountain Goats . Band you most listen to ? Definitely The Mountain Goats followed by Hank Green and the Perfect Strangers,Favorite Hank song ? Strange Charm . Who the eff is Hank ? Hank is a young adult novel published in 2005 .  Unfortunately I have no control over the movie rights to Hank . Any news on the Looking for Alaska movie ? Sadly no . Thoughts on Doctor Who ? I am very excited for the new spin-off series written by my friend Patrick Ness . Have you ever shaved your head ? Yeah, in high school I shaved my head and then when it started to grow back I dyed my hair fuchsia plum but I had a really bad reaction to the hair dye so I ended up with a lot of fuchsia plum dandruff .  Oh, and I was so stressed out about my fuchsia plum dandruff .  I'm so glad I'm not in high school anymore . What is this ? I believe that's a sloth who, having eaten too much oversize lollipop, is now barfing a rainbow . How do I survive reading Macbeth ? I think you have a much better chance of surviving it than Macbeth does . Favorite tree ? I guess former Orlando Magic player Tree Rollins . Favorite season ? Oh definitely Season Kent, the music supervisor for The Fault in Our Stars and Paper Towns movies . Favorite dad joke ? I'm pretty fond of the ones I just told . Are you making a cooking channel ? Maybe . Monopoly or Scrabble ? Scrabble . How's Willie ? He's so good !  Willie, say hi .  He can't, he can't talk . We're newlyweds .  How do we build a strong marriage ? My parents gave us two words of advice that have been very helpful: Mutual generosity . Can you speak Spanish ? No .  Well, except I guess I just did . If you could speak any language what would it be ? Probably Spanish . Did you have braces ? Yes, for three years . Coke or Pepsi ? Diet Dr Pepper . Dinosaurs or dragons ? Dinos . Favorite infinity ? Real numbers . Is there gonna be more Crash Course with you ? Yes .  More literature this summer, we're reading all these books . What are you reading right now ? This .  It's so good ! Feelings on socks ? I love them . How excited are you for VidCon ? Very !  Less than 90 days to go ! Llamas or alpacas ? Llamas ! What's your Starbucks order ? Can I just have like a, like a regular, just a large regular coffee, just, just black coffee ?  Thank you . 50 questions, 4 minutes !  Hank I'll see you on Friday !                 
Good Morning Hank, it's Tuesday . Today I'll be reviewing the mobile version of the famous board game, Monopoly .  I hadn't played Monopoly in a number of years before downloading the app and what I'd forgotten, or maybe just never noticed, is that Monopoly is a terrible game .  The Basic idea, you buy property and then charge rent when your opponent lands on that property, leads to a game that is distressingly similar to real contemporary human life .  Monopoly unfolds slowly at first, then very quickly at the end, people find meaning in its outcomes even though it's mostly random and it's only occasionally fun .   The Mobile game brings all the terrible things about Monopoly to your phone, while adding some new additional terrible things .  Consider for an instance rich Uncle Penny Bags, who plays a minor role in the board game but here shows up to introduce you to Monopoly every single time you play, also since you can't play online with friends or enemies, you're forced to play against a not particularly intelligent artificial intelligence .   And when the AI begins to lose, it quickly becomes desperate, proposing on each turn increasingly ludicrous trades in an attempt to acquire properties .  You have to decline these trades over and over, and after a while you start to feel guilty because the only thing this artificial intelligence has been told to do is win at Monopoly, and so now it's failing at literally its only goal . Whereas you, as a thinking feeling human, have a variety of passions and fulfillments outside this mobile game so sometimes you just end up agreeing to the ridiculous trades to make the AI happy .  Even so, you usually win eventually but you can't even enjoy it properly because you feel so sorry for the sad little artificial intelligence kitten .  Or maybe that's just me .  Anyway, by far the worst thing about Monopoly, both the board game and the mobile app, is its convoluted, self-contradictory analysis of capitalism .  Like, the game is essentially about how acquiring land and the ability to exploit monopolies is literally a roll of the dice .   And yet, the game celebrates getting rich, I mean the only way to win is to bankrupt your opponents, and this turns out to be partly a product of Monopoly's complicated origin story . So in 1935, a door-to-door salesman named Charles Darrow sold his board game Monopoly to the company Parker Brothers .  The game became hugely successful; Darrow was the first board game millionaire and his story embodied the American Dream: a rags to riches tale of an American inventor who became successful via his individual genius and hard work .  Today there's a plaque celebrating Darrow on the Boardwalk in Atlantic City and Parker Brothers often prints his heroic story alongside the game's instructions .  There's just one problem, which is that Charles Darrow did not invent Monopoly .  Thirty years earlier, a woman named Elizabeth Magie invented a board game called The Landlord's Game, and although it was in many ways similar to the Monopoly we play today, it was a more direct attack on land monopolism and an exploration of how over time capital tends to become concentrated into fewer and fewer hands .  She patented the game, and even tried to sell it to Parker Brothers, but they passed .  Still, the Landlord's fame became popular in progressive circles and was even used as a teaching tool at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton Finance school .  For decades, many people played the game and changed the rules as they went .  Along the way, some versions of it came to be called Monopoly, and then in 1933, Charles Darrow played Monopoly at a friend's house and afterwards asked for a written version of the rules .  He altered some of the design, patented the game, and became a millionaire .   And so the story we hear of an individual rightly rewarded for his genius, turns out to be far more complicated story of a woman who invented a game that thousands of collaborators then improved by playing it .  A story of capitalism working, turns out to be a story of capitalism failing .  I mean, the game that became so popular was really created by a community, and the free market failed to reward that community, instead wrongly assigning most of the value to one contributor who, truthfully, added very little to the game .  This iPhone app, by the way, is published by Hasbro, the multi-national conglomerate that now owns the very same Parker Brothers company that declined Elizabeth Magie's game, only to later buy Charles Darrow's version .  Of course, none of this answers the underlying question, which is how anyone ever enjoyed Monopoly in the first place .    Regardless, the history of Monopoly turns out to be a far more interesting study of capitalism than the boring game itself .   Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good Morning Hank, it's Tuesday . So the American Library Association's Office for Intellectual Freedom just released its list for the 10 most challenged books of the year in the United States .   " Challenged "  meaning someone requested to have the book removed from a school or library .   And it turns out the most challenged book of 2015 was Looking for Alaska, which was written by me .  The book has been challenged and banned around the country for  " offensive language "  and  " sexually explicit descriptions "  .  I suppose this is a kind of honor, I mean Looking for Alaska contained the very same  " offensive language "  and  " sexually explicit descriptions "  10 years ago but was much less likely to be banned because, you know, not many people had read it .  Also, Looking for Alaska beat out some of my favorite books, like: Two Boys Kissing by David Levithan and Fun House by Alison Bechdel, and also the Holy Bible, which came in 6th .  To be fair the Bible does contain its fair share of explicit passages .  Anyway, I'm often asked to respond to the banning of Looking for Alaska from schools and libraries so OK, here is my response:Text is meaningless without context, and what usually happens with Looking for Alaska is that a parent chose one particular page of the novel to an administrator and then the book gets banned without anyone who objects to it having read more than that particular page .  The scene in question involves a very awkward and ultimately failed attempt at oral sex which is described in very cold and clinical language; in fact the entire passage includes only one adjective:  " nervous "  .   And then in the book's NEXT scene two characters have a much more sensually described and passionate but much less sexually explicit interaction .  That passage ends:  " We didn't have sex .  We never got naked .  I never touched her bare breast, and her hands never got lower than my hips .  It didn't matter .  As she slept, I whispered:  " I love you, Alaska Young .  "  .  So in context, the novel is arguing really in a rather pointed way that emotionally intimate kissing can be a whole lot more fulfilling than emotionally empty oral sex .  Teenagers are critically engaged and thoughtful readers, they do not read Looking for Alaska and think  " I should go have some aggressively unerotic oral sex " , and they also don't read the Outsiders and think  " I should join a gang " , or read Divergent and think  " I should jump on to moving trains "  .  So as far as i can tell that kind of narrow prescriptive reading seems only to happen inside the offices of school superintendents .  So yeah I don't think Looking for Alaska is pornographic and I don't think its readers find it titillating, but that noted I don't think it should be up to me whether Looking for Alaska or actually any book is in a school or a library because I am not a teacher or a librarian, the highly trained, criminally underpaid professionals we employ to make those decisions .  As I've discussed in the past, I don't think publicly funded learning exists primarily for the benefit of parents or even primarily for the benefit of students, it exists for the benefit of the social order .  We are all better off with a well-informed, well-educated population because that population is more likely to start successful businesses and develop treatments for cancer and write musicals about treasury secretaries .   And that why everyone pays taxes to fund public schools and libraries, regardless of whether you personally use the library of have kids in school .  I think teachers and librarians know more about teaching and librarianship than I do, and I believe they must be allowed to do their jobs serving the whole public .   But even beyond that I don't believe that books, even bad books, corrupt us .  Instead I believe books challenge and interrogate, they give us windows into the lives of others and give us mirrors so that we can better see ourselves .   And ultimately if you have a world view that can be undone by a novel, let me submit that the problem is not with the novel .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good Morning Hank, it's Tuesday ! So back in August 2009 somebody started a Tumblr called  " Obama is literally Hitler "  which satirized all the comparisons between Barack Obama and the leader of the Third Reich .  Hitler analogies have a long history the phrase  " reductio ad Hitlerum "  was coined way back in 1951 to describe arguments that rely on comparing other people's position to those of the Nazis or Hitler .   And even before Hitler was literally the worst, other people were .  Like one common uber-villain was the Pharaoh from the Hebrew Bible's Book of Exodus .  During the American Civil War, abolitionists sometimes called slaveholders Pharaohs, and Southerners sometimes called Abraham Lincoln a modern Pharaoh .   But these days, we have Hitlers and the Nazis to compare to everyone and everything . On social media, we read that Hillary Clinton is like Hitler, or Donald Trump, or Ted Cruz, or Bernie Sanders .  Also, an actual candidate for president compared the contemporary United States to Nazi Germany . All of this isn't just inaccurate, it's counterproductive .  For one thing, hearing your preferred candidate compared to Hitler doesn't make you less likely to vote for them .  You're just repulsed by the analogy, not least because it implies that you are a Nazi .  But for another, the analogy imagines that something is terribly, terribly wrong with the United States .  Like 1930s Germany wrong .   And that's just not true .  The U . S .  economy has grown each of the last six years, unemployment has dropped throughout the 2010s .  Crime is down .  90% of Americans have health insurance (the highest rate since the 1970s .  The United States is not in some mortal peril .  Now of course, the U . S .  does have big problems .  Americans have too much student loan debt, for instance .  High income inequality is hindering growth .  Our healthcare system is way too expensive and not particularly effective .  We desperately need comprehensive immigration reform, and we still have a very high violent crime rate compared to other rich nations .   But we've always had big problems .  Like, when we talk about making America great again or reigniting the American Dream, when exactly was this Golden Age we're hearkening back to ?  Was it 200 years ago when the vast majority of people couldn't vote because they weren't land owning white males ?  Was it 100 years ago when most women couldn't vote ?  50 years ago when interracial marriage was still illegal in half the country ?  Or was the American Golden Age in, like, 1985 when unemployment was higher than it is today, median household income was lower, and you were more than twice as likely to be murdered .  Plus, there was no Snapchat .  I feel like this imagining of a past that never existed furthers the notion that the U . S .  is facing some unprecedented danger that only Candidate X or Y can solve .   And then when politics focuses on name calling, rather than policy, it becomes really hard to have a discussion because when you call my candidate an idiot or a loser or a cheat, you're calling into question my whole future !  In a way, it feels like you're calling me those things, which makes me want to remove myself from the conversation long before we get to the nuances of say, immigration reform or tax policy .  All the presidential candidates have done this sort of name calling, but I don't want to create a false equivalence here .  Donald Trump does it by far the most .  Like, here's just a sampling of Trump's insults: liar, choker, disloyal, a low life, crazy, dishonest, reckless, a hypocrite, and a soft, weak little baby .   And that's just some of the things he said about Ted Cruz that I can repeat in a Vlogbrothers video .  Now putting aside the accuracy of those insults, I mean, I quite like little babies, but I've seen very little evidence to indicate that Ted Cruz is one .  I think insults hurt American political life, which in turn makes our government less effective regardless of where our political leaders sit on the ideological spectrum .   And I really hope that eventually in this election cycle, we can find ways to avoid insults and instead focus on what government should do and how .  So Hank, you and I are gonna start trying to do that .  Next Tuesday, I'm gonna take a look at the Republican candidates' tax plan .   But first, Hank, on Friday, you're gonna take a look at the tax plans put forth by the Democratic candidates .  I will see you then .  Here's to civil discourse .                 
Good Morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday . Thanks for your excellent video about Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders's tax plans .  Today, I'm going to discuss the tax plans put forth by Donald Trump and Ted Cruz .  I would talk about John Kasich's tax plan, but he hasn't put out a detailed one yet, so I can't . Okay, but first a brief overview of the federal budget for which these taxes pay .  About a third of the US's $3 . 8 trillion federal budget goes to Social Security and unemployment, mostly to Social Security, which provides income for elderly and disabled people .  27% goes to healthcare spending .  This is mostly Medicare, our publicly funded health insurance program for the elderly .  16% goes to the military, 6% to service the national debt, 4% to veterans' benefits, and after that the pieces of the pie start to get pretty small . So, Hank, as you pointed out last week:  "   taxes aren't any fun .  "  They're also very, very complicated; and I want to emphasize that I am neither a tax policy expert nor an economist .  Although, in 1994, I did win the bronze medal in economics at the Alabama state academic decathlon .  So, for one brief shining moment, I was the third-best economists among all 17-year-old C-students in the state of Alabama, but I recognize that that's not expertise .  I have, however, read a lot of experts . Okay, so both Donald Trump and Ted Cruz have proposed tax reforms that will dramatically simplify the American tax code .  In fact, Cruz has promised to make taxation so straightforward that we won't even need an Internal Revenue Service any more, so let's start there with his plan . So right now in the US, we have seven tax brackets .  So, like, if you're married and filing jointly, and you made a million dollars last year, first off, congratulations .   But as for your taxes, the first  18,450 of your million dollars are taxed at 10%, the next $56,449 are taxed at 15%, etc . , with everything over $465-ish thousand taxed at the top US marginal tax rate of 39 . 6% .  Except, not actually, because of deductions .  Like, if you have a mortgage, you can deduct the interest you pay; money you give to charity can be deducted as well .  Your student loan interest might be deductible, some retirement savings, some childcare costs, lots of other stuff .   But let's imagine an extremely unlikely scenario where you're making $1 million/year but don't claim any of these deductions .  You can still claim the so-called  " standard deduction "  .  This is a tax deduction available to everyone .  If you're married and filing jointly, it's currently $12,600 per year .  So your first $12,600 of income wouldn't be taxed regardless .  In the end, with a million dollars of income taking only the standard deduction, you'd pay around $343,427 in tax, an effective tax rate of, like, 34 . 3% .  The same family earning $250,000/year would pay $53,755, an effective tax rate of 21 . 5%; and if your family had the median US household income of around $52,000, you'd pay just under $5,000 in federal income taxes, an effective tax rate of about 9 . 6% . Ted Cruz's plan is to collapse these seven tax brackets into a single 10% tax rate for all income .  This is sometimes called a flat tax .  Crucially, Cruz would also increase the standard deduction to $20,000/year for married married couples filing jointly .  So the median US household income would end up paying $3200/year in federal taxes instead of 5,000, a reduction of $1800, or 34% .  The family making $1 million/year would pay $98,000/year in taxes, a reduction of $245,000 per year or 72% .  So everyone would pay less tax, but the wealthiest Americans would see by far the biggest cuts, both in percentage and absolute dollars . Cruz would also eliminate most of the aforementioned tax deductions except for mortgage interest and charitable giving .  He would also eliminate all gift and estate taxes and repeal all corporate and payroll taxes in favor of a 16% kind of VAT, which is where it gets really interesting .  Insofar as this stuff can be interesting .  By the way, Europeans were like,  " Oh my God, he finally said a word I recognize: VAT !  "  Kind of .  In most European countries, there's a broad tax on consumption called the VAT, or Value Added Tax .  Cruz's VAT is a little different .  Basically, it taxes businesses revenues minus their capital investments and the money they pay to other companies .  I'm going to oversimplify here a little bit, but imagine I wanted to start a company selling T-shirts that celebrated my love of pizza that were available for $20 right now at dftba . com .  Now, imagine that I had to pay a company $10 to manufacture each T-shirt .  I would only pay VAT on the $10 difference .  The other company would pay VAT on the $10 that I paid them, and then they would get to subtract any non-wage cost they incurred making the shirt, etc .  Also, if I wanted to buy my own machine to make T-shirts, I could subtract the cost of that machine from my revenue before paying the VAT .   The money left over is either profit that goes to owners or wages that go to employees .  So basically it's a tax on both wages and corporate profits, and it would aim to do a better job than our current system does of actually, like, taxing economic activity; which would be good because, as you might have heard, with the current system, there's a fair bit of tax avoidance going on . Lots of economists, although certainly not all of them, like the idea of this kind of VAT .   But Cruz's specific plan would dramatically reduce the amount of federal revenue .  Like, the non-partisan Tax Policy Center calculates that Cruz's plan would reduce federal revenue by $8 . 6 trillion over the next ten years .  Now, Cruz says that by eliminating the IRS and a few other federal agencies, the government can save $500 billion over the next decade, but that's less than 10% of the shortfall .  Like, if you ceased all military spending in the United States, you'd still be 2 trillion dollars short .   But Cruz doesn't want to eliminate military spending .  Instead, he wants to increase it dramatically . Now some economists argue that the shortfall will partly be made up by increased economic growth, but even the most optimistic independent modeling I could find still showed a dramatic in the budget deficit under a Cruz tax plan barring huge cuts to either Medicare or Social Security or some combination of the two .  Okay, so then there's Donald Trump's plan .  Trump would also increase the standard deduction, but by more so that any couple making $50,000/year or less would pay no federal income tax .   And he would collapse the seven tax brackets into four, with the top rate being 25% on income over $432,000 per year .  Trump's plan is similar to Cruz's in that he would also eliminate gift and estate taxes and most deductions, but he would cut corporate tax rates rather than replace them with a VAT, which would probably lead to a lot of people identifying as corporations instead of human beings for complicated reasons explained here if you want to pause the video . The other facet of Trump's tax plan that he talks a lot about on the campaign trail is that currently, hedge fund managers and some other people who work in finance can be paid in what's called carried interest, which allows them to pay a lower tax rate, and Trump's plan would end this .   But, because income tax rates will be so low, under the Trump plan, almost all hedge fund managers will pay less tax than they do now .  While campaigning, Trump has also repeatedly said that his tax plan will  " cost me a fortune, "  which is just not true .   Like, under the Trump plan, if you make $1 million/year, you'll pay about $200,000/year in taxes; which is much higher than the Cruz plan but much, much lower than the current rates .   But, altogether, Trump's proposed tax plan would actually cost the federal government more revenue than Cruz's plan--somewhere between 10 and 12 trillion dollars over the next decade .  That's about, like, uh, 25% of the total federal budget .  He has said that his tax policy will be revenue neutral, but in response to that, the right-leaning Center for Federal Tax Policy wrote an op-ed entitled,  " Donald Trump's Tax Plan Will Not Be Revenue-Neutral Under Any Circumstances .  "  The Tax Policy Center, meanwhile, estimates that eliminating the Unites States military altogether would cover just about half of the revenue gap created by Trump's tax plan . So in summary, Ted Cruz's tax plan involves a radical simplification of the tax code: a flat 10% income tax would lead to lower taxes for all Americans, but the wealthy would benefit the most; and Cruz's strategy for revamping the corporate tax code has support among a lot of economists, but the low rates would lead to dramatically higher budget deficits .  Trump's tax plan would probably lead to even bigger deficits .  As with Cruz's tax plan, everyone would pay lower taxes, but the rich get the majority of the benefit, although Trump's tax plan does not benefit the rich as much as Cruz's does .   But more importantly, neither of these plans is at all feasible unless we completely re-imagine the role that government plays in American lives, especially the lives of the elderly, the disabled, and military veterans .  Budget cuts to services benefiting those people are extremely politically unpopular, so much so that both candidates have promised to find a way to preserve those programs .   But to speak frankly, neither of these candidates has offered a serious explanation for how they would do that .  You simply cannot cut government receipts by 20 percent while preserving the programs that together make up more than 80% of the budget .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday May 3rd 2016 .  I gotta go vote .  Walk with me .  Just an absolutely beautiful day for an election .  Done and done !  The best part is you get a sticker ! You'll never guess where I'm going next .  That's right, Hank, in a stunning turn of events I find myself in an airport .    You know my number one complaint about the Indianapolis International Airport, which I truly do believe to be the best airport on earth ?  Every 12 minutes .  .  . Intercom: Smoking is prohibited at Indian .  .  .   I mean at what point in human history is it just presumed that you can't smoke in an airport ?  I think that point is in the past !  On the other hand, I guess if it weren't for that message I would be pretty happy just to live the rest of my life in the Indianapolis International Airport, and maybe that's what they're up to: maybe they're trying to get me to actually get on a plane .   Today's video comes to you in 4 very special parts .  Part one: Voting !  I already did that .   Part two: Hank, today is also my dad's birthday, which I guess means it's also your dad's birthday .  Lots of people don't know this, but our dad basically ran our company until a year ago .  He did, like, all the payroll and budgeting and spreadsheets that made Crash Course and SciShow possible .  He's also just a really great dad, and person .  Happy birthday dad .  I love you .   Why is it so easy to say I love you to my parents, when I can only say it once a year to my brother on Esther day ?   Anyway, part three: Racing !  So Hank I'm going to be driving the pace car on May 14th at the Angie's List Grand Prix of Indianapolis .  I was very excited about this because I'm a big fan of Indy cars, but then I went to the track, and I tried, I did my practice .  I thought that being the pace car driver was like a purely ceremonial position .  You know like running with the Olympic torch, or being the Prime Minister of Putin's Russia .   But it turns out, no, I have to drive the car, what is for me very fast, like 110 miles an hour in the straight-a-ways .  Oh, and I'm very scared .  If you watch it on TV just remember, I'm doing my best .   Part four: speaking of crashing - God, I hope I don't crash - Crash Course .  Hank, here in the United States millions of high school students are taking their AP tests right now .  This is always great news for Crash Course; our views skyrocket .  Anyway, I just wanted to take this opportunity to say to high school students doing well on tests is great but it is not the point of life or the point of education .  Tests are a somewhat inefficient way of measuring your understanding of, like, life, the universe, and everything .   But the point is not to do well in the test .  The point is to have a more engaged and fulfilling life during this: your one brief flicker of consciousness .  So good luck, and study hard, but not just for the test .   Part five: Did I say there were only gonna be four parts ?  Do I contradict myself ?  Very well then I contradict myself .  I am large, I contain multitudes .  Right, part five is my beard .  Hank, as you may have noticed, I have shaved .  I didn't shave for six consecutive weeks because AFC Wimbledon, the fourth tier English soccer team sponsored by Nerdfighteria, just kept winning .   And it got to the point where I was pretty desperate to shave, but I also wanted AFC Wimbledon to make the playoffs .  Because if they made the playoffs, they'd have a 25% chance of becoming a third tier English soccer team, and it's always been my dream to sponsor a third tier English soccer team .   And then, Hank, the most amazing thing happened .  First AFC Wimbledon lost a game, allowing me to shave, and then another team didn't win a game, allowing AFC Wimbledon to make the playoffs anyway !  So good luck to AFC Wimbledon, if they make it to the finals, Hank, I am going to Wembley Stadium to watch the game .  Also, VICE Sports made a great documentary about the team and my relationship with them, so check that out .   Part six: last part I promise, VidCon .  Nerdfighters, if you want to participate in the .  .  .  I know I can't fumar !  If you want to participate in the signings and meet and greets you need to register by May 13th, so fair warning !   Alright, the no smoking messages have gotten annoying enough that I'm going to get on the plane .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank it's Tuesday .  So in last week's video I said: " You'll never guess where I'm going next .  "  And then your lovely wife commented  " It was a toss up between whether you were going to the dentist or the airport, honestly .  "  Well the joke's on you Katherine, because I'm at the dentist .  I've been to the dentist a lot, more than 150 times actually, in the 13 long years since I was standing on a curb in Chicago reading a novel and a bike messenger's shoulder ran into my face .  The original fractures were initially misdiagnosed, which led to a long-term infection and many, many surgeries and quite a bit of ongoing pain .  Alright, I think I've had enough of watching that . Hi, greetings from the future where I'm in my basement .  So Hank, this pain goes way back .  In fact, I complained about it in January of 2007, in the third video I ever made .  " Hank, as you know, I had surgery on my mouth a few weeks ago .  " I complained about it again a few months ago in a video when my mouth was still numb .   And in between, I found little ways of talking about it without talking about it .  Like back in March of 2007, I complained about a  " doctor's visit "  that was actually a dentist visit at which my oral surgeon told me, and I'm quoting him directly here  " You probably have nothing to worry about .  "   " I probably have nothing to worry about .  If I probably have nothing to worry about, then I definitely have something to worry about .  " Ah, how right you were, me from the past .  I should say, that person is no longer my oral surgeon, and these days I have, like, some of the best dentists and oral surgeons around, I'm very very lucky to have such incredible care .   But it often still hurts a lot . One of the problems with physical pain, I mean aside from the pain itself which for me at least is literally maddening, is that physical pain is essentially un-sharable .  Like a few days ago my son was bitten by an ant and after he told me what happened he said  " It hurt like this "  and then he pinched me .  He was trying to shrink the space between his pain and my understanding of it, and language just wouldn't suffice, not because he's 6 but because language is always inadequate in the face of pain .   But of course being pinched doesn't really help you understand the pain of someone else's ant bite either .  It's very, very hard if not impossible to bridge that empathy gap . I've talked before about Elaine Scarry's brilliant book The Body In Pain, which was first recommended to me by Mike Rugnetta .  In one famous passage of the book, Scarry writes,  " To have great pain is to have certainty .  To hear that another person has pain is to have doubt .  "  In that respect, and many others, physical pain can be profoundly isolating .  No matter how many similes and metaphors you employ to describe the pain, no matter how many times you pinch the people you love to try to get them to understand, no one can ever quite know what it's like to have your pain anymore than you can know what it's like to have someone else's . Pain is a reminder that you are alone inside your body, that no one else can access your consciousness and that what you call yourself is, at least in some ways, a kind of prison from which there is no earthly escape .   And that's like horror-movie-level terrifying if you think about it long enough .   And that's how I feel at least when pain is turning me inward and inward in an ever-tightening spiral .  But that's not all pain can do .  This is the part of the video where I generally take a turn toward hopefulness, Hank, which is challenging when it comes to chronic pain .   But I don't think impossible !  I guess that's easy for me to say because again, I have excellent care and I don't live in constant pain .   And I want to be clear, I don't subscribe to the notion that suffering is somehow ennobling .  It sucks .   But I do think when you find yourself able to turn outward, knowing pain can help you be much more empathetic, which in turn helps us to alleviate each other's suffering because sometimes listening generously to people in pain and believing them can be very good medicine .   So Hank, Nerdfighteria, thank you for listening .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  So dishonesty has a storied place in American politics, but for the past several decades maybe our most prominent form of deception has been the so-called  " non-denial denial "  .  I first heard that term while reading All the President's Men about the Watergate cover-up that led to President Richard Nixon's resignation back in 1974 .  Like Nixon's press secretary Ronald Ziegler responded to reports about the scandal saying  " Stories are being run based on hearsay, innuendo, guilt by association .  "  He also said  " No one in the White House at any time directed acts of sabotage .  "  The first statement is just a criticism of the press, the second one is very carefully worded to be technically true like  " no one in "  that is, physically inside the White House,  " directed "  that is, directly oversaw  " acts of sabotage "  .  President Nixon had still totally committed obstruction of justice, of course, but there was no direction of acts of sabotage from inside the White House !  In the decades since, the non-denial denial has become almost beautiful in its linguistic sophistication .  Like after the National Inquirer published reports of 2008 Democratic presidential hopeful John Edwards having a child outside of his marriage, he said  " That's tabloid trash .  They're full of lies "  .   But of course saying that tabloids are full of lies is not the same thing as saying that the tabloid is lying about that particular story .  He later said that his wife was beautiful and sexy, which again is not the same thing as saying he wasn't having an affair .   And then finally, he said  " The story's just false .  "  False is a word you hear a lot in non-denial denials .  It's useful because it's vague, like maybe the story's false because you didn't actually have a child with your mistress, maybe the story is false because the story claimed you met your mistress at noon, when in fact, it was 12:06 .  Maybe the most famous example of a non-denial denial came from Bill Clinton, who said,  " I did not have sexual relations with that woman Miss Lewinsky "  .  Now that seemed at first a total unambiguous denial, but it turned out Bill Clinton was using  " sexual relations "  to refer to a specific sexual act and not to, you know, like, a sexual relationship .  This strategy of narrowing the definition of guilt so much that you are no longer guilty is quite a popular one .  Like when CIA director John Brennan was asked if the CIA was spying on Senate aides investigating the CIA's interrogation techniques, he responded,  " As far as the allegation of CIA hacking into Senate computers, nothing could be further from the truth .  "  Because there was no password theft, it didn't meet Brennan's definition of  " hacking " , but, you know, other than that, it was completely true, so it really, it could have been further from the truth, because it was just, it was just that one step away from total truth .  There are many other kinds of non-denial denials .  Both Bill Clinton and Ronald Reagan, for instance, used  " There's no evidence of that "  and  " I can't recall "  .  You also often hear people not quite answer the question, like during the Bridgegate investigation, New Jersey governor Chris Christie said,  " I am not a bully "  in response to a question that was not about whether he was a bully .   And then there's the ancient tactic of criticizing the press, like allegations by the press might be called defamatory or libelous or slanderous or my personal favorite, outrageous .   But of course lots of things that are outrageous also happen to be true .   And words like defamatory and libelous are like false, they're vague, they don't refute specific accusations .  I bring this up, Hank, because I think it's important to pay attention to the language of the people who are or wish to be our leaders, especially in an election season .  As voters, we need to be asking  " When you tweet that something is false or a lie, what exactly is false or inaccurate about it ?  When you call someone a liar, to what lies are you referring ?   And when you issue a denial, what precisely are you denying, and are you in fact denying it ?  "  Language exists to facilitate communication, to make my thoughts transparent to you and yours transparent to me .   But we have to remember language is a tool that can also be used to render things opaque .  Hank, I hope you're having fun on tour, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  Today's video is like nothing you ever bought at IKEA; it comes to you in only two parts . Part one: Commencing .  So over the weekend, Sarah and I drove to Gambier, Ohio, where I got to deliver the commencement address at my alma mater Kenyon College .  Here's part of what I said:So when I was a student here, there was widespread agreement among my peers that the so-called  " real world of proper adulthood "  was basically a disease you caught and then eventually died from .  Like, adulthood, with its mortgages and spreadsheets and lawn maintenance, seemed to be a thing to be dreaded and resisted until finally it overtook you .  Like a zombie plague .   And then, like, once you acquired adulthood, you would start saying things like  " Brand awareness in a fractured media landscape "  and  " We need a president who knows how to get things done .  "  To be an adult meant engaging in totally unironic conversations about the weather .  I remember once when I was at Kenyon, my grandmother called me to tell me she was watching the weather channel, and that it looked like it was raining in Ohio .  I explained to her that I was reading Ulysses, that I wasn't even in Gambier, but in Dublin, Ireland in 1904, and that history was a nightmare from which Dedalus was trying to awake, and that nothing, literally nothing, mattered less than the current weather .   And then after a moment, she asked,  " Well, is it raining, or isn't it ?  "  To be an adult was to be a river rock blasted by an endless torrent of mundane terrors, from resume formatting, to electricity bills, that would inevitably smooth all my hard edges, until I looked and felt just like everything else .  Now, this is the part of the commencement address where I am supposed to tell you that, in fact, adulthood isn't so bad and blah blah blah .   But no !  No !  It is so bad ! Side note: Uh, graduation gowns are not flattering . In the end, the speech is mostly just a celebration of unironic conversations about the weather if you want to watch or read the whole thing, you can do so .  Links in the doobly do .  Part two: Sports .  So Hank, I am in the midst of the greatest sports month of my life .  A couple weeks ago I drove the pace car at the Indianapolis Grand Prix, which allowed me to experience what it's like to be tailgated by 30 professional racecar drivers .  We're just six days away from the annual highlight of my social calendar, the Indianapolis 500 .   And most amazingly, the fourth tier English football team Nerdfighteria sponsors, AFC Wimbledon, have found themselves in the playoff finals, just one victory away from being a third tier English football team .  That's right, Hank, on May 30th, AFC Wimbledon will take the field at Wembley, a 90,000 seat stadium, and, wearing DFTBA on the back of their shorts, they will play a one-game playoff against the sailing ships of Plymouth Argyle . It's hard to describe how unlikely this is .  Wimbledon have the smallest stadium of any team in their league, and among the smallest budgets .  They'd also be the only English team owned by their fans to be as high as the third tier, so this is a massive moment for the club .   And as you know if you listen to our podcasts, where you can get all the week's news from both Mars and AFC Wimbledon, I am immensely excited ! In fact, Hank, I am leaving directly from the Indianapolis 500 to go to the game in London .  So Nerdfighters, if you live in or near London, I hope you will come to Wembley on May 30th to cheer on the Dons .  If you want to go to the game but can't afford a ticket, email me, and I will try to work something out .  Info on all of that in the doobly do .  Hank, I know that sports are silly .   But as Pope John Paul II once said,  " Of all the unimportant things, football is the most important .  " Hank, I'll see you on Friday .   
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  So when I was in Jordan, we drove out from Amman one day to visit the Zaatari Refugee Camp just south of the Syrian border .  Zaatari is currently home to about 80,000 refugees, most of whom are children .  First, I met these three teenage boys, who were taking a photography class taught by refugee volunteers .  The youngest of them, 15 year old Ubay, told me he had dropped out of school to work, but was now taking the photography class because he missed learning .  When I asked him about his biggest fear, he said  " What worries me most is child labor .  This generation will not be able to help Syria afterwards; we will become, year by year, more illiterate .  " I heard this again and again from parents and kids alike .  The economic pressures on refugees are so immense that it's extremely difficult to keep kids in school, a problem made worse by the schools being woefully underfunded and overcrowded .  Like, kids have to attend class in two shifts, so they only get a few hours of instruction per day, and each classroom often has over 100 kids in it .  I then met Aida's family .  She lives with 5 of her kids in the camp, including twin 5 year olds who found Snapchat filters absolutely hilarious .  When I asked Aida why she came to Jordan, she said, very matter-of-factly,  " I want you to picture yourself sitting in your home, and an explosive barrel falls on top of your roof, and after the fog is gone, you check your kids to see if they are alive .   And you find pieces of flesh lying in your house and you have to check to see if they are from your family .  "  Of course, I can't picture that, not really .  I mean, I can try to imagine the horrors of war or the trauma of dislocation, but I don't really know what it's like to be a 13 year old whose house gets bombed .  I don't know what it's like to end up living in a single room with my mother and 4 of my siblings, attending overcrowded schools with a totally unfamiliar curriculum until dropping out to earn $3 a day .  You can't imagine those things, but still I think we need to know that they are real, and that this is happening .   But it's not all that's happening, because Zaatari is also teeming with vibrance and life .  In the main marketplace you can buy TVs and solar phone chargers .  You can rent a wedding dress and get your bicycles and shoes fixed .  There's a pizza restaurant that delivers, and the pizza is phenomenally good .  Like, better than any delivered pizza in Indianapolis .  People are complex and their lives are complex, and again and again, I heard from refugees that among their biggest challenges is feeling dehumanized, feeling destructed and disbelieved, and like, much of the world sees them simply as objects to be pitied or feared .  Later that day I visited with a family whose 18 year old daughter was about to begin university .  Her father, Musamohammed was immensely proud of his daughter's achievements .  He told me that in Syria they'd lived in a two-story house, they'd had a car; now they had only the hope of their childrens' education .   And when I asked him what he would say to people in the U . S .  and Europe, he answered,  " Only that refugees are people, and that being a refugee does not distinguish me from any other human being .  " After saying goodbye to Musamohammed and his family, we went outside and I saw a flock of pigeons flying above me, and I thought  " What an improbable moment of natural beauty .  "   But then someone explained to me that kids train groups of pigeons like this one to fly in elaborate patterns .  This beauty wasn't some accident of nature, it was a kid's expression of joy .  We think  " This horror is unfortunate, but we can't fix it, it's human nature .  "  We think  " We need to protect ourselves, however we define 'ourselves,' even if it means treating them, however we define 'them,' as less than fully human .  "  We think  " Well that's just the nature of things "  .   But being in Zaatari reminded me that human nature is not just some force acting upon me .  Human nature is also something we are creating together, as we decide how to treat each other and the world we share .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday and I don't really wanna make a video today, but it's Tuesday, so .   Hank, when we were growing up in Orlando, Florida, it always felt to me like we were all just visiting, like, we were all just there for the theme parks, whether to visit them or work in them, and even today, when people ask me where I'm from, I usually say Alabama, even though I didn't move there until I was 14 .   For a long time I believed that because I never felt fully at home in Orlando, that no one else could either, but of course, that's just narcissism .   In the 24 years since I left Orlando, it has become a great city .   People have made it an awesome hometown by growing deep roots there, including a strong Latino community and a vibrant LGBT community, both of which have achieved so much with love and activism in the face of a long history of violence and discrimination, and now 49 people killed in a gay club in Orlando .   I don't know how, Hank, I don't know what to say, I don't know if I have anything constructive to say .   I do think it's valuable to listen to people who've been directly affected by the shootings in Orlando, I've put some reading in the doobly-doo .   I was particularly moved by the partner of Leroy Valentine Fernandez, who wrote,  " You will always be my baby, and I will always love you, "  and by the brother of victim Amanda Alvear who said,  " She wouldn't want anyone to spread hate for her .   She would want them to spread more love, "  and by victim Luis Wilson Leon's friend Daniel, who said,  " He'd been dealing with hate all his life .   We all have .   I have .   He never retaliated with hate .  "   Aside from that, Hank, I really just want to share with you the names of the people who were murdered .   I think we should hear their names as much as possible .   Last night, Orlando showed what a great city it is when thousands of people came out to memorialize the dead and to stand with their friends and families .   Let us also stand with them by listening to them, by listening to those who loved them, and by remembering them .   Edward Sotomayor Jr . Stanley Almodovar IIILuis Omar Ocasio-CapoEric Ivan Ortiz-RiveraPeter OmmyJuan Ramon GuerreroLuis S .  VielmaKimberly MorrisEddie Jamoldroy JusticeDarryl Roman Burt IIDeonka Deidra DraytonAlejandro Barrios MartinezAnthony Luis Laureano DislaJean Carlos Mendez PerezFranky Jimmy Dejesus VelazquezAmanda AlvearMartin Benitez TorresLuis Daniel Wilson-LeonMercedez Marisol FloresXavier Emmanuel Serrano RosadoGilberto Ramon Silva MenendezSimon Adrian Carrillo FernandezOscar A Aracena-MonteroEnrique L .  Rios, Jr . Miguel Angel HonoratoJavier Jorge-ReyesJoel Rayon PaniaguaJason Benjamin JosaphatCory James ConnellJuan P .  Rivera VelazquezLuis Daniel CondeShane Evan TomlinsonJuan Chevez-MartinezJerald Arthur WrightTevin Eugene CrosbyLeroy Valentin FernandezJonathan Antonio Camuy VegaJean C .  Nives RodriguezRodolfo Ayala-AyalaBrenda Lee Marquez McCoolAkyra Monet MurrayYilmary Rodriquez SolivanChristopher  Andrew LeinonenAngel L .  Candelario-PadroFrank HernandezPaul Terrell HenryAntonio Davon BrownChristopher Joseph Sanfeliz                
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  Yesterday was World Refugee Day, so I thought I'd share a story of a family I met while I was in Jordan: Mufak, Nada and their five kids .  Mufak was trained as a butcher, but he'd become a successful entrepreneur in Syria .   But then he had to leave everything behind in 2012 to escape the fighting and after four years in Jordan, where refugees are not legally allowed to work, the family's savings were depleted .   But when I met them back in February, they were excited because they were about to be resettled in the United States, specifically Rockford, Illinois .  You may have heard it's easy for Syrian refugees to get approved to live in the U . S . , but it's just not .  There are many, many layers of background checks, involving all kinds of investigations, from iris scans to fingerprinting to lots and lots and lots of interviews .  In the case of this family, all told, it took more than two years, but at last, they've been approved .  " We've never been to the U . S .  before, "  Mufak told me .   " We're very excited .  We can't wait .  " Nada told me,  " I hope Americans will welcome us .  I hope we do not disappoint you .  " So a couple weeks ago, Rosianna and I went to Rockford to catch up with the family .  LIFE Magazine once said,  " Rockford is as nearly typical of the U . S .  as any city can be .  "  You know, it's the kind of place where downtown, there's a statue of a white guy holding fireworks and an American flag .  It was great to see the family again, and we enjoyed an immense and delicious lunch together, but the dislocation of the move had clearly been difficult .  From the language to the weather, from the healthcare system to the grocery store to the appliances, everything was different .  Nada explained one profound change to me:  " In Jordan, "  she said,  " if we needed to go to a shop, we would find public transportation .  Here we have to have a car, or know someone who has a car .  "  She began to cry as she told me she missed her family and was struggling to get used to life so far from them .  Her son comforted her, and then told me,  " Mom also cries whenever Messi scores .  " Everyone in the family is taking English classes .  Mufak will soon begin working as a butcher .  The kids are in summer school and starting to learn to read and write in English .  In short, the situation is complicated and hard and hopeful, like a lot of our lives .   But I'd argue that in every way, socially, politically, economically, we are lucky to have this family in our country .  To be a refugee is to be politicized .  Too often we're told that because of their ethnicity or religion, refugees are threats, that our civilization is fundamentally incompatible with their civilization .   But of course, that imagines culture as a discreet, unchanging unit, which it isn't .   And it also ignores the facts: the fact, for instance, that American soldiers in the Revolutionary War included Yusuf ben Ali and Bampett Muhamed, and the fact that today, more than three million Americans are Muslims, from Dave Chappelle to the owner of the Jacksonville Jaguars to my U . S .  congressman,  Andre Carson .  Nada told me she hopes not to disappoint us - well, I in turn hope we do not disappoint her .  When I asked one of Nada's nephews, who's been in the U . S .  for almost a year, what he liked most about his new home, he said,  " The law .  "  At first, the translator and I were both confused .  We thought he was saying the Arabic word for God, but he was saying   the law, which had not existed in Syria and which had prevented him from working in Jordan, was what he liked most about the United States .  His family did not come here to change the law - they came to be protected by it . Hank, last week UNHCR launched a global campaign called With Refugees, asking people to stand with refugees by signing a petition calling on governments around the world to one, ensure every refugee child gets an education; two, ensure every refugee family has somewhere safe to live and three, ensure every refugee can work or learn new skills to make a positive contribution to their community .  I hope you'll join me in signing that petition .  There's a link in the doobly-doo below .  And just one last thing .  That statue in downtown Rockford of the white guy with the flag and the fireworks ?  His name is Joe Marino .  His parents emigrated to the United States from Italy in a time when many Americans believed that Italian Catholics, with their loyalty to the pope, could never be real Americans, participating in a democracy .   And now Joe Marino is a symbol of Americanness to the people of Rockford .  We contain multitudes, which has always strengthened us .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Hello ! VidCon is a weird time of the year to make a video .     I'm overwhelmed so I'm recording this a little bit early meaning I'm recording it on Tuesday .  John, your video just came out, and so here I am and I'm going to do a Question Tuesday because I'm making a video on Tuesday which never happens . Also because doing anything more complicated than a question Tuesday would destroy me .   But I'm fine .  I'm good . So let's go on to Twitter: Hey, it's question Tuesday the day that I answer real questions from real nerdfighters !  I got partway through and then I gave up .  Opinions on gerrymandering ? That's not really a question, though you did put a question mark at the end of it .  I think you should watch CGP Grey video about it .  Sports with John asks, Why aren't you watching the USMNT ? Don't know what that is .  Danny makes a great point that the USMNT is almost certainly the United States Mutant Ninja Turtles .  Easy might be adopting two kittens tomorrow, what should she name them ? Asiago and Cheddar .   Patrick wants to know if I have any tricks for conquering insomnia .  I react to stress with sleep .  I'm like a, like one of those sheep that gets scared and falls over . Or are those goats ?  Most of the times I have suffered from insomnia, it has been because I drank caffeine so I just don't do that .  I know that seems very extreme to a lot of people but I don't have that much of a problem with it . Favorite kind of M&M ?  Peanut .   If you could have a fictional person be a guest at VidCon who would it be ?  I like this question . Luna Lovegood, Galadriel, Huck Finn .  That's hard, that's a hard one .  I'm gonna, I'm gonna have to write a fanfic . Describe your feelings about VidCon being this week .  I don't get to think a lot about it .  It just happens . I form very few memories because they go straight from one thing to the other and I never have time to think about anything .   But this one's going to be particularly intense I think because we are launching, announcing three things .  We are launching membership for the Internet Creators Guild .    You can go and become a member of the guild if you are a creator on the internet .  The ICG is basically just a thing that promotes the interests of internet creators .  We're also announcing that there will be two new VidCons, which is huge and kind of shocking that it's finally happening . We're doing a VidCon in Melbourne, Australia and a VidCon in Amsterdam   .   And also, I forgot about this because I can't tell you about it, we're announcing another thing on Saturday, which is tomorrow when this video comes out and I can't tell you about it yet   .  I'm sorry about that, but we're going to announce it during the nerdfighter meet up so you have to be there, or be somewhere else slightly afterward because I'm sure people will be tweeting about it . It's the kind of thing that you might want to pay attention to if you live near of in Boston .  That's all I'm going to say .  On a scale of one to ten what's your favorite color of the alphabet ? Going to have to say trurpee .  How do you feel about avocados ?  That's an easy one, also the multi-verse is the addition to that query, it's a two parter . Okay, well I love avocados, I also love the multiverse .  If the multiverse theory is true there's a universe in which I am an avocado .  What color are your socks ? It's the good color and also these colors as well and that's how we're gonna end it .  Thank you so much to everybody who took my homework assignment and did it .  There were so many letters that I got on Snapchat and Facebook and Tumblr and Twitter . Things like this remind me that we are still doing things with people and not just at people and also it reminds me that we are a part of how the world creates itself and I'm very thankful to all the people who took the time to write to someone in their government about something they were passionate about .  John, I would say that I would see you on Tuesday but I'm going to see you before then .  So I will see you very shortly . Good video by the way this week .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  So every year at VidCon, I try to make pretty good choices, until Saturday evening, when I traditionally celebrate the end of VidCon by participating in a YouTube show called Beer and Board Games .  This year, there was a significant emphasis on the beer part of Beer and Board Games, so full disclosure, I'm a little bit hazy on the details of how this all went down .  Semi-related story, I lost my video camera, so I have no VidCon footage, which is also why we're stuck with the old camera this week .  But right, so after Beer and Board Games, I ran into Minute Physics Henry and Smarter Every Day Destin and CGP Grey Grey, and somehow we got to talking about Iceland .  Hank, I am a huge fan of Iceland .  It just contains so many things I love: hot baths, an improbably excellent football team, Bjork, etc .  There's really just the one problem with Iceland which, you know, is that it's located in Iceland . Like, Sarah and I visited Iceland in August of 2008, and we went on this bus tour, and our tour guide, reading from a script, said without any irony,  " Iceland may have ice in its name, but as you can see, the weather is quite mild here year-round .  Perhaps we should switch names with Greenland, haha .  "   And then we got off the bus and that August afternoon it was perhaps half a degree above freezing, and because of the howling winds, the rain - it was of course raining - appeared to be coming up from the ground, which, for the record, was not green, it was brown on account of it being recently dried lava . So okay, the four of us discussed problem 1, the Iceland being in Iceland problem for a little bit, and then we pivoted to a seemingly unrelated problem, which is that currently, there is no convenient midway point on the Atlantic side between the Americas and Afro-Eurasia .  Like, on the Pacific side, you have Hawaii or if you're feeling adventurous, the Cook islands, but on the Atlantic side, pretty much nothin' . Until, that is, we relocate Iceland .  Our proposal, Hank, is to move Iceland from here, where it is constantly raining and spewing lava, to say, here, where it would be a lovely stopping point between continents .  Quick side note, Hank, I honestly think if we'd had a better located Iceland in the first place, humans probably would have had earlier and more robust trade between the Americas and Afro-Eurasia, which in turn might have mitigated some of the horrors of the Colombian exchange both on a human and a biodiversity level .  So you know, not to criticize plate tectonics or anything, but I think this could have been handled better from the beginning .  That said, the world is what it is, or at least it was, until we learned to build islands . Right, so we formed a coalition to create New Iceland, a nation with 1) great weather, 2) Bjork, and 3) apparently a better soccer team than England has .  Plus, 4) it's only a two hour flight from New York, Madrid, or Marrakesh .  Destin assigned Henry with the job of actually moving Iceland, which, you know, I'm not a scientist, but it can't be that hard, I figure we just get a big tugboat or something and pull it south .  CGP Grey was given the job of designing a flag for New Iceland .  Destin assigned himself something having to do with rockets .   And I was tasked with the political problem of getting the people of Iceland to agree to move their country, you know, about 3,000 miles South-Southwest of its current location .  So, here we go . People of Iceland !  Hello .  You may have noticed that your nation is very cold and rainy in the winter, and then very cold and rainy in the summer .  Also, remember in January, when the sun rose at noon or rather would have risen if it weren't perpetually overcast ?  I'd like to solve those problems, and give you beaches, warmth, sunshine, and joy, all while allowing you to keep your Bjork .  So what do you say, Iceland ?  I imagine you're gonna say no, that you like your country where it is despite its geographical shortcomings .  Maybe that says something about Icelanders, or maybe it says something about change, that dangerous and beautiful force that drives and defines the universe .  Still, I'm hoping you'll say yes, because I could really use a vacation in sunny New Iceland . Hank, congratulations on a great VidCon .  I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  So I'm on vacation in Michigan right now, and the days here unspool in a kind of slow motion .  I read and write and hang out with my family and stare out at this great lake which to the human eye might as well be an ocean since it stretches up all the way to the horizon .  I love a good horizon line .  I remember as a kid wondering what would happen if you sailed out to the horizon .  I mean, I knew the world was round and everything, but it sure looked like it ended .  Like if you sailed far enough you'd be in the sky .   And then as I got older I realized you could chase the horizon forever and never actually get to it .  Which gave me this weird kind of comfort, I find it hard to describe .  One of my favorite artist's is the Japanese photographer is Hiroshi Sugimoto, and he has a series of photographs called seascapes where he photographed water horizons all over the world from the Tasman Sea to the Caribbean to the Sea of Japan to the Baltic to the Mediterranean to Lake Superior .  Sugimoto has said that water and air vouchsafe for our very existence, and maybe that's the comfort I feel looking out at a water horizon .  Maybe I feel my existence vouchsafed .  These days seeing the hard line of the horizon makes me think not about the edge of the world but of the edgelessness of it .   " The world is a globe, "  Terry Pratchett wrote,  " the farther you sail the closer to home you are .  "  Like, our dad grew up in Indianapolis back when it's nickname was naptown, because nothing ever happened there .  It was a place that attracted people who actively wanted to live quiet lives in the flat and unbeautiful middle of America .  The kind of place Nick Carraway could retreat to at the end of the Great Gatsby after being unable to bear the awful excitement of New York .  Our dad worked like hell to get out of Indianapolis .  He and Mom left for good a few weeks after I was born, and never looked back .   And then in 2007, Sarah and I were living in New York, and I called Dad with the news .   " Sarah had gotten a job, "  I told him,  " in, hmm, well, in Indianapolis .  "   And he said,  " you can't be serious .  "  I'd sailed away from a birthplace I never really knew to Orlando and Birmingham, Chicago, and New York, and ended up right back where I started .  I use to think of that as a failure, that I'd ended up back in the middle .  Midwesterners sometimes call the Great Lakes the third coast, or we brag that our great sea is unsalted and sharkless, but we know that our lakes are not as grand as the coastal oceans .  I felt I had failed because I wasn't looking out at the greatest horizon, or swimming with the strongest current, or battling the biggest waves .  I use to think that even though you could never get to the horizon, you had to keep chasing it your whole life .  That, in fact, the whole point of life was to chase after the unreachable horizon .  I use to think that Moby-Dick's captain, Ahab, who loses everything in pursuit of that great white whale was the only proper hero in American fiction .   But now, Hank, I find myself content, utterly content to look at the horizon, rather than to chase after it .  I like the middle .  I'm happy here, at this lake which can trick my eyes into believe it goes on forever .  I think I've underrated happiness, and also underrated the pleasure of just observing .  So thanks for watching with me, Hank .  I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  I'm still on vacation, so here's some more horizon .  Today I'll be reviewing man's capacity for wonder .  The phrase comes from a line in F .  Scott Fitzgerald's novel The Great Gatsby, in which the narrator imagines Europeans first arriving in the Americas .   " For a transitory enchanted moment, "  Fitzgerald writes,  " man must have held his breath in the presence of this continent, compelled into an aesthetic contemplation he neither understood nor desired, face to face for the last time in history with something commensurate to his capacity for wonder .  "  The line comes right at the end of the novel, and it's always seemed to me slightly out of place, as if Fitzgerald realized he couldn't write the great American novel without one moment of zooming out to examine the  " beginning "  of the  " history "  of his continent .   And of course now it feels wrong on a few levels; there's the gendered language, the false notion that America was somehow empty or pristine before Europeans arrived, and the fact that within a few decades of The Great Gatsby, humans would step foot on the moon and glimpse what the universe looked like just after the Big Bang by gazing upon 16 billion-year-old light .  Still, Fitzgerald's business about man's capacity for wonder is an awfully good line .  So good, in fact, that it's easy to mistake it for true .  Like, beautiful arresting observations always seem accurate even when they're not .  Take for instance the masterful first line of Anna Karenina:  " All happy families are alike; each unhappy family is unhappy in its own way .  "  We know this observation is too reductive to be, strictly speaking, true, but we still love it, not least because most of us find comfort in the idea that if we aren't going to be happy, we might at least be unique .  In fact, I suspect most of us, deep down, would rather be interesting than happy .  I know I would .  Now, the best observations in literature are at once beautiful and broadly true .   " Ships at a distance have every man's wish on board, "  Zora Neale Hurston wrote .  Or this line from Kurt Vonnegut:  " We are what we pretend to be, so we must be very careful what we pretend to be .  "   But often, a great line doesn't prove to be a great truth .  Like, I remember when my son was about two, we were walking in the woods one November morning .  We were along a ridge, looking down at the forest below, where a cold haze seemed to hug the forest floor, and you could see out across the forest below us for miles, and it was just so extravagantly beautiful .   And I kept trying to get my oblivious two-year-old to appreciate this landscape .  At one point I picked him up and pointed out toward the horizon and said  " look at that, Henry, just look at it !  "   And he said,  " leaf !  "   " What ?  "  I said, and he said  " leaf "  again, and then reached out and grabbed a single brown oak leaf from the little tree next to us .  I wanted to explain to him that you can see a brown oak leaf literally anywhere in the Eastern United States in November, that nothing in the forest was less interesting .   But after watching him look at it, I began to look as well, and I soon realized it wasn't just a brown leaf .  Its veins spidered out red and orange and yellow in a pattern too complex for my brain to synthesize, and the more I looked at the leaf with Henry the more I felt like the cliche of the stoner who just can't believe how beautiful everything is .  The intricacy of that leaf astonished me, and I was reminded that aesthetic beauty is as much about how and whether you look as what you see .  I was, in short, face-to-face with something commensurate to my capacity for wonder .  From the quark to the supernova, the wonders do not cease .  It is our attentiveness that is in short supply, our ability and willingness to do the work that awe requires . So in the end, I think Fitzgerald was wrong, but I think human's capacity for wonder is nonetheless pretty great .  I give it a 10 out of 10 .  Highly recommended .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .  
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  I'm in the office .  So, I don't know if you've seen Sarah's brilliant Art Assignment video, The Case for Kanye West .   But after watching it, I've been listening more carefully to Kanye's music and there's a lyric in the song Power that's really stuck with me .  It goes: " They say I was the abomination of Obama's nation .  Well, that's a pretty bad way to start a conversation .  "  I think the grammatical ambiguity of  " that's a pretty bad way to start a conversation "  is important here .  Side note: don't tell me Kanye didn't mean any of this because he's not that smart or whatever .  One, authorial intent doesn't matter, and two, Kanye is that smart .  I mean sometimes he's an offensive buffoon, but so are a lot of smart people .   But right, so saying you're the abomination of Obama's nation is indeed a pretty bad way to start a conversation - right - because you're calling someone a name .  You're also using cleverness to make yourself seem correct .   But  " they say I was the abomination of Obama's nation "  is also a pretty bad way to start a conversation .  I mean first off you're using a nonspecific  " they "  as a way of constructing a false us vs .  them dichotomy .  Also, most Kanye haters weren't actually calling him the abomination of Obama's nation, they were criticizing other things about him and his work .   But then, Kanye simplified and repackaged those arguments in a way that made it seem ridiculous .   You see all these bad ways of starting conversations a lot in contemporary discourse .  Think of all the gotcha moments in the 24-hour political news cycle and the use of diminutives and name calling . I mean from Canadian Cruz to Crooked Hillary to Lying Donald to Barry Obama - they all undermine and demean people in a way that's like a little too vague to defend yourself against . There's the rhetorical questions, the certainty of one's own opinion, wit masquerading as accuracy, the sharing of one study you read about once instead of doing the research to learn what the bulk of evidence currently points to, the presumption that those who disagree with you are merely wrong .  The list goes on and on .  My favorite at the moment is where you accuse a voice you don't like of being shrill or shouty or aggressive even when it isn't, which is a tactic so meta that even Kanye couldn't parse it .  I do this too by the way .  Like the other day, I said on Twitter that 40% of US gun sales involved no background checks which turns out to be a totally unsupported statistic .   But by the time I did the relevant research, the tweet was already out there furthering the ceaseless spread of misinformation .  So, I don't get a pass on this one .   But research shows that rude, aggressive, and inaccurate comments don't just lower the overall quality of conversation, they also make people feel more angry and afraid .   And while I think Kanye's right about all these bad ways of starting conversations, they're effective ways to start conversations because we all feel compelled to respond .  Like hostility generally gets answered with hostility .   And when the outrage button gets pressed inside of us, we want to share and reply and do all the other things that the architecture of social media currently values .  So, trolling is poisonous, but it works . That's why the front page of most YouTube comment sections doesn't contain the most interesting or generous or nuanced comments, but instead, the most controversial ones .   And I know those controversial comments get replies, but I don't think they change anyone's mind .  Like screaming at each other is a bad way of listening, but I think it's also a bad way of getting heard .  Now I realize that's easy for me to say since I already have a platform, but I truly don't think anyone has ever changed their mind because they were called an idiot .  Hank, I really loved your video last week about race and racism in the United States, but the comment section was a disaster .  Until, you made a hankschannel video asking people to simply reply with a plus sign to comments they agreed with .  That immediately tricked the YouTube comment algorithm into valuing generous and thoughtful comments, which in turn, made commenting far more civil and productive .  It's a small thing and it wasn't perfect, but it made a real change in that online conversation and I know I'll be using the plus sign reply from here on out .  Nerdfighters, if you have other suggestions for how we might improve the quality of conversations, both here and in the wider world, I'll be in comments doing my best to listen .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  Today's video is like Alice's Doc McStuffins Lego: it comes to you in only one part . Part 1: the news .  I am, of course, referring, Hank, to the El Chapo news .  So a couple weeks ago, I got a text from my mother in law that said,  " You need to read the El Chapo story in The Washington Post .  "  El Chapo, for those unfamiliar with his work, is the currently imprisoned alleged leader of the Sinaloa drug cartel and according to The Washington Post article in question, the world's most notorious drug lord .  He's known for his ruthlessness and daring prison escapes and from everything I can gather, he's like not the kind of person you want as an enemy, so I'm gonna tread pretty lightly here, Hank, because I am nothing if not a coward . Right, so anyway, I start reading the article, which details some concerns that El Chapo's lawyer has about the conditions of El Chapo's imprisonment .  It's reported, for instance, that El Chapo is only allowed to watch one hour of television per day, and also that during his 65 days in a Juarez prison, he has only been allowed two intimate visits with a concubine . The article also asserts that during his imprisonment, El Chapo has read two books, the Spanish novel El Final Del Ave Fenix by Marta Querol, and John Green's high school love story, Paper Towns .  Now, first off, I'd argue that Paper Towns isn't so much a love story as a learning that romanticizing someone isn't the same thing as loving them story, but yeah, apparently El Chapo has read one of my books .  Which, you know, is a little weird .  I mean, I guess Paper Towns is about a larger-than-life character who enjoys well-plotted escapes and has a bit of an empathy deficit, so maybe he found it relatable ? I have so many questions !  Did he like the book ?  How was the Spanish translation ?  Did he ship Ben and Radar ?  Did he emerge from the reading experience imagining Santa more complexly ?   But the biggest question I have is like, how ?  How did a book I wrote eight years ago end up in a prison in Juarez, Mexico ?  Which led to an even larger question .  I started wondering how, like, anyone ever found my books . You might be thinking,  " Well, everyone else was reading them or whatever " , but in fact, that is not true .  While my books have been far more widely read than I ever could have imagined, more than 97% of Americans haven't read one .  So my readers are still in a relatively small club, Hank, it's just like, you know, you, a few other people, El Chapo .  .  .  In fact, at this point, reading any book is almost a countercultural activity .  Like, a recent survey found that almost 30% of American adults read no books in the last year . So, Nerdfighters, no worries if you haven't read one of my books, but if you have, I'm wondering if you can share with me in comments how you came to read it .  Or I'd love to hear the story of any book that found its way to you through strange and unexpected circumstances .  And yes, I am hoping to use these answers for inspiration in the coming months as I work on my new story .  Speaking of which, I should go back to that, Hank, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .   I've been thinking a lot about my friend Amy Krouse Rosenthal, who, Hank, has written a lot of amazing picture books that I'll be sending you in the coming months .   She also wrote the brilliant book Encyclopedia of an Ordinary Life, and as it happens, gave me one of my first big breaks .   By the way, Hank, this video is like Plato's theory of the soul, it comes to you in three parts . Part 1: my big break .   So way, way back in 2002, I was working at Booklist Magazine and Amy e-mailed me in a professional capacity and then I replied in a mostly professional capacity, while also acknowledging that I was a massive fan of hers .   We struck up a correspondence and then one day, she asked me if I'd ever written anything about two minutes long that might work for WBEZ, Chicago's public radio station, and I didn't have anything two minutes long, but I went home that night, wrote a little essay, and then Amy invited me in to record it .    And over the next few years, I got to record dozens of essays for WBEZ, and a few for the national NPR show, All Things Considered, and that was definitely very helpful to me when I was trying to get my foot in the publishing door to sell Looking for Alaska .  But looking back, getting me on the radio wasn't actually the big break that Amy gave me .   The real break was that as both a writer and a person, Amy taught me that for stories to work, readers and writers must both be generous .   Like, when I read Persuasion as a 15 year old and declared it to be crap, the problem was not with Jane Austen .   I wasn't reading generously, I was looking for things to dislike, which meant that I was gonna find them, even when they weren't there .    And writing is the same way, like, I think what makes Amy's books so special is that she's not trying to wow or impress the reader, she's trying to make a gift for them . Okay, part two, 08/08/08 .   So, Hank, fast forward a few years to August 08, 2008 .   That was a big day in our lives, Hank, we had our first huge Nerdfighter gathering, assisted by the fact it happened to coincide with a Harry Potter convention .   That was also the day I first met Rosianna, who at the time, was a high school student, but is now my production partner in movie stuff, and that evening, Amy hosted an event at the Bean in Chicago's Millennium Park called The Beckoning of Lovely .   It was a really special gathering, and a lot of that day has stuck with me, but I think what stuck with me the most was being in the dusk at Millennium Park with hundreds of other people and singing a song that English soldiers sang a hundred years ago to the tune of Auld Land Syne .   We're here because, we're here because, we're here .  .  . you're not watching this video to hear me sing .   The point being, The Beckoning of Lovely was amazing . Okay, part three .   08/09/16 .   So, it's now eight years later, and Amy has just finished a new book, Textbook, which is a companion to Encyclopedia of an Ordinary Life .   She wrote,  " It's not a prequel or sequel, hopefully it's an equal .  "   The book comes out next Tuesday, and she's hosting another gathering at the Bean on 08/09/16, and if you live near Chicago, you should really stop by .   You can find out more by watching this video or there is a link in the doobly-doo below, but it's gonna be special and fascinating and generous like everything Amy does .   Also, even if you don't live in Chicago, I hope you'll join me in reading Textbook, there are links to get it in the doobly-doo . Hank, I think we all have people in our lives whose generosity has lifted us up or helped hold us together, and I guess I've just been thinking a lot about those people in the context of your big news, Hank .   Nerdfighters, I'd love to hear about who those people have been in your lives in comments .   I know it's easy to forget 'em in the torrent of bad news, that we are here for each other and lucky to have each other, but we are, so thank you .   Hank, I will actually see you tomorrow, because it will be Esther Day .   Speaking of which, I love you .                  
Good morning Hank it's Tuesday .  Thank you for the brilliant and astonishingly comprehensive youtube . com/howtovoteineverystate . After seeing it, I went on Twitter and asked eligible American voters who don't intend to vote what their reasoning was, and today I want to respond to the six concerns I heard most . Number 1, by far, 'I do not want to choose between the lesser of two evils . ' Two things .  First, in most states there will be more than two candidates on the presidential ballot .  Secondly, I think maybe you do want to choose between the lesser of two evils .  You know, because it's the less evil choice .  By not voting, you're essentially ranking the candidates as equally evil which I think is technically impossible given their vastly different policy positions .  Also, you're not just voting for president .  I know it might feel that way because of national media coverage, but the elections down the ballot are extremely important . It's not just your senators and your US congress people .  it's your state legislators who make the laws in your state .  The school board members who decide what the curriculum is going to look like in your schools .  Those elections have a massive effect on the community you live in . Okay, concern number 2 .  I am not informed on the issues and/or don't care . So if you don't care who your elected representatives are we agree on this one, you should not vote .   But it's not really that hard to get informed you can go to youtube . com/howtovoteineverystate, find your state, find a sample ballot then you can go to the candidates website or if it is a race for us congress or senate then there is a great site called ballotopedia link in the dooblydoo .  And if you want us to make videos about candidates' policy plan and proposals .  Let us know in comments what topics you would like for us to explore . Concern three, I'm a Republican in a blue state or a Democrat in a red state, so my vote doesn't matter .   First, you're down ballot votes might matter, but I'd argue your vote matters regardless .   Like, you're right that your vote isn't going to tip the election, but by not voting, you're making politicians in your state believe that their state is less politically diverse than it actually is, and I think that's dangerous, because a strong minority has a moderating effect on the party in power, both at national and local levels and God knows we could use some moderation . Concern four, the system is corrupted by money and votes don't actually matter .   I agree that the system is corrupted by money, I just don't think we're gonna fix it by not voting, because not voting out of protest looks to the system exactly the same as not voting out of apathy .   Also, I don't think money negates the power of your vote, and I think rich people know this, actually, like, 57 . 5% of eligible American voters voted in the 2012 election, 99% of millionaires did .   Literally . Number five, illness or disability or transportation problems .   One of my many frustrations with US voting laws is that in lots of states, it's really difficult to vote if you are sick or disabled .    But find your state in the links below and check out your options, there usually are some .   Also, if you need a ride on election day, most local political parties will pick you up and take you to the polls, even if you're not voting for their candidates . Okay, lastly, number six, I am overwhelmed with the process of registering and have never voted before and find this whole thing intensely scary .   Yeah, I can relate, like, sixteen years ago, in August of 2000, I just moved to Chicago, but I didn't know where I technically lived, like, I was sleeping in the walk-in closet of a Chicago apartment that my name wasn't on the lease of, but my drivers' license said I lived with Mom and Dad back in Florida, where most of my stuff was, and it was a stressful and overwhelming time and I had no idea how to register and suddenly I looked up and the deadline had passed .   It's true that the system makes it hard for people who move around a lot to vote, but I lacked the fortitude to stand up to that system, and it's one of the great shames of my life .   I feel like I failed my community and myself and also people who live far away from me who desperately want the opportunity that I took for granted .   Of course, my vote wouldn't have changed the outcomes of any elections, but the combined votes of even 10% of the thousands of people who are like me, that would have changed some outcomes .   If you're eligible to vote in the United States, I'm asking you to become a registered and informed voter and to make your voice heard .   Even if it's hard, in fact, especially if it's hard .   Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  So you may have noticed that as years go, 2016 has been, you know, something of a dumpster fire ?   And yet, there's still a lot of good news around the world .  We tend to hear about the bad news a lot, because it happens suddenly and it's often dramatic, whereas good news usually happens slowly .  Like as Max Roser from Our World in Data puts it,  " You never see headlines reading 'Global Child Mortality Fell by 0 . 00719% Since Yesterday' "   But there is lots of encouraging news, let's start there, actually . 1 .  Child mortality continues to fall around the world, and 2016 is on pace to have the fewest child deaths of any year in like, thousands of years .  Literally . 2 .  Then there's Ebola .  Remember the Ebola virus outbreak that killed more than 11,000 people in Guinea, Sierra Leone, and Liberia ?  It has ended, although flareups remain possible and strengthening community health centers in those countries is vital to prevent future outbreaks . 3 .  Speaking of ending, we are very very close to ending the debilitating and extremely painful guinea worm disease .  There were about 3 . 5 million cases as recently as 1986 .  In 2015, there were 22 cases .  So far in 2016, there have been seven . 4 .   And then there's malaria, which continues to be a massive global health problem, but the attention and funding its received in the last 15 years has made a huge difference .  Around the world, malaria deaths have fallen by almost half since 2000 . 5 .  We're also making progress when it comes to non-infectious diseases, like a large phase III study just found that better treatment for pancreatic cancer and early stage pancreatic cancer survival rates are now approaching 30%, whereas a decade ago, they were under 10%, and overall, cancer survival rates are also going up .  Like, in the US, in 1980, the overall cancer survival rate was just under 50% .  Today, it's very close to 70% .  In fact, it might even reach that milestone this year . 6 .  Okay, let's move on to war .  So, worldwide, conflict deaths were down in 2015 from 2014, and they're on pace to be down again this year .  This is largely due to decreases in violence in Afghanistan and from the Boko Haram insurgency .  I wanna be clear though that 2016 is still a definite dumpster fire when it comes to conflict, it's just that it was worse in 2015 and worse than that in 2014 .   But it is worth noting that worldwide, the percentage of humans who die in war has gone way, way, way down since 1945 . 7 .  Also, ISIS is losing .  They've lost the cities of Fallujah and Manbij, and while they definitely remain a threat, especially in Syria, Iraq, and Libya, to quote The Economist,  " the self-proclaimed Islamic State is weakening fast .  " 8 .  Okay, let's move on to bankruptcy .  There is less of it, at least in the US .  In fact, the rate of personal bankruptcies has fallen every year since 2010 and is down again in 2016 . 9 .  Meanwhile, the global economy is growing and will probably grow faster this year than it did last year, and worldwide, absolute poverty is declining .  In fact, in 2016, there are 200 million fewer people living in absolute poverty than there were just four years ago in 2012 . 10 .  Literacy rates are going up around the world, and the literacy gender gap is shrinking .  The percentage of literate humans will be higher than ever this year, and no, people have not stopped reading books . 11 .  In fact, sales at book stores are up in 2016 .  It's the first time they've risen in many years, and nobody knows quite why it's happening, but it reminds me that I should really finish that book I've been working on . 12 .  We're going to end with a few fun ones .  Video games are getting better .  Like, I know lots of people don't like it, but I am overwhelmed by the beauty and size of the new video game No Man's Sky .  In fact, Hank, I've just begun a new series on hankgames where I explore my own existential anxieties while walking around a largely abandoned planet .  You can watch that by clicking here, or there's a link in the doobly-doo, but in general, video games have gotten awesome . 13 .  What else, we got more Harry Potter . 14 .  AFC Wimbledon is in League 1 and our awesome new advertising is up in their stadium . 15 .  Pokemon Go has led me to explore a fascinating and intricately detailed world called outside . 16 .   And Beyonce released maybe the best non-Mountain Goats album of the decade . Hank, again, I'm not trying to say that everything is going well here on Earth, there is much to lament and much that needs to change .   But I'm really encouraged that, as a species, we've shown an ability to make broad positive changes, and I really believe that in spite of it all, hope is not misguided . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, its Tuesday .  I greatly enjoyed your video about sports that ought to be included in the Olympics but there was one big problem with it which is that the Olympics only occur once every four years .   And I, for one, am not willing to wait until 2020 to watch some live, televised HEADIS - the head-centric version of ping-pong . HEADIS, Muggle Quidditch, The Settlers of Catan World Championships, human back flip racing, demolition derby soccer featuring an excavator serving as goalie !  All these amazing sports share one commonality, Hank .  Their brilliance goes largely untelevised .  I mean, Hank, If I cant watch one man wriggling beneath two other men while all three men are simultaneously jumping rope why do I even have cable ?  I mean here is an incomplete list of the 24 hour sports networks currently available in my area and yet somehow I've never been able to watch live, professional double mini trampolining .   And that's just a travesty .  So in the 2004 movie Dodgeball, the Dodgeball World Championships are broadcast on a fictional sports network called ESPN 8 The  " Ocho "  .  In real life of course, the Dodgeball World Championships are not televised at all and there is no ESPN 8 although, for the record, ESPN does own 8 cable networks .  But there is a subreddit called  " The Ocho "  where you can find highlights of lesser known sports from remote controlled truck racing to tug-of-oars, a sport that despite being born from a pun, is incredibly entertaining .  Let me submit that The Ocho would be a wildly popular cable network/streaming service .  It could be your TV home for everything from well established niche sports like the ones in the Olympics to, you know, competitive log rolling which requires amazing balance or foot billiards which, yes, exists and, yes, is awesome . I just wanna highlight three more sports that I think would be awesome viewing on The Ocho .  First, far leaping which is a very popular sport in the Dutch province of Friesland .  Far leaping is essentially an exaggerated pole vault over a moat and it is terrifying and beautiful and I love it !  Why is there no television program called Far Leaping Weekly ? Then there's cup-stacking, an exciting sport that's also very fast paced .  Like, while I've been talking about it, you watched someone set the world record .  We should be talking about the stars of cup-stacking every night on sports centre !  And lastly, ultimate frisbee .  It's the best part of football plus the best parts of basketball and it happens to be the sport that I played in high school to get out of my physical education requirement .   But I'm not gonna lie, I mostly want ultimate frisbee to receive more attention because dogs are pretty good at it which makes it the sport most likely to inspire the new Air Bud sequel our dark and broken world so desperately needs . Hank, with our super abundance of sports media, you'd think there would be room for more than four or five sports but there isn't, at least not in the US .   And that bothers me because sports with a cult following are loved deeply even when they aren't loved broadly, like anything with a cult following .  The internet has been pretty good at building homes for communities like that, from primitive technology YouTube channels to bands that sing about Harry Potter .   But for reasons I don't really understand, that hasn't happened with sports yet .  If it ever does by the way, I suspect it will be known not as ESPN 8 The  " Ocho "  but instead as  " YouTube Sports "  .  I can't help but hope that maybe, someday, I'll find my true calling as the color commentator at the Far Leaping World Championships . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  Today's video is like the ninth rib on my right side: it comes to you in two parts . Part one: my rib .  So, Hank, I broke my rib celebrating my thirty-ninth birthday last week .  It's pretty uncomfortable, like, activities that have suddenly become extremely painful include sitting down, standing up, laughing, and also breathing .  Also, for the record, filming YouTube videos isn't very comfortable .  I really can't recommend any facet of the broken rib thing .  This happens to be a particularly inconvenient time to have a broken rib   and partly because the broken rib has coincided with a previously scheduled mid-life reflection . So I've been middle-aged for a while in the sense that if you were to double my current age it would be a perfectly respectable human lifespan, but I've only recently begun to feel middle aged in the sense of being, you know, acutely aware that I'm not as young as I used to be .  In fact, up until recently, I've felt much better than I did ten or twenty years ago because when I was younger I treated my body terribly .  Like, I smoked cigarettes and steadfastly refused to exercise .  I remember once when I was at boarding school   I ate nothing but nacho cheese Doritos and drank nothing but Mountain Dew for eight days straight .  It was like a demented exploration of how poorly one can treat one's body before developing scurvy . In those days I thought of my body as, like, a burden that I was biologically required to lug around .  I thought living inside a body was the price I had to pay for consciousness, and I bought into the idea the the body wasn't just separate from the mind, but somehow the opposite of the mind .  I imagined my body as an adversary, like I was this thinking, feeling, capitalized noun, and my body was a lowercase animal that needed to be placated so I could go on thinking and feeling .  This is a seductive line of reasoning, but ultimately a flawed one, of course, because there is no distinct line between body and mind .  Also, when I started treating my body better   I found that I got better at the activities I most associated with my mind: reading and writing . So anyway, having treated my body terribly when I was an adolescent and somewhat less terribly in my thirties, I have been able to feel relatively young for the last decade or so .   But now that time has passed; I am old and can no longer inhale without pain and there really isn't any moral to this story .  Except, I guess, one, your body is a temple, do not fill it with Doritos, and also, two, do not fill it with beer on your thirty-ninth birthday, or else you will hurt yourself . Alright, moving on .  Part two: the future .  So, Hank, it's been almost five years since my book The Fault in Our Stars was published .  Lots of awesome has happened in my life in those five years: CrashCourse happened, as did The Art Assignment, Alice happened, some movies happened .   But one thing that did not happen is that I have not published a new book . So I have decided to clear my schedule for the next several months as I try to finish a draft of my new story, meaning that over the next ten months or so I will only be making three public appearances, which are as follows:One, October 14th and 15th I will be at NerdCon: Stories in Minneapolis .  While there I will be speaking on a few panels, recording a live edition of our podcast, and also talking a little bit about mental illness and creativity . Two, in 2017 on February 25th and 26th I will be at NerdCon: Nerdfighteria in Boston .  I'm very excited about that !  And three, on May 3rd of 2017 I will be in Cleveland, giving a speech on the topic of I-don't-know-what-yet because that seems very far away . Ticket info for all those events can be found in the dooblydoo below .  I'm sorry I'm not travelling more in the coming months, but I really, really, really want to finish a draft of the new book .  So thanks for understanding and I hope to see a lot of you in Minneapolis, Boston, and/or Cleveland . Hank, DFTNYBR .  I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday .  I'm wearing a suit jacket which can only mean one thing; it's time for the Bank of Nerdfighteria's quarterly report .  Or that I'm at a funeral, but I'm not at a funeral . So the Bank of Nerdfighteria has three branches: there's the executive branch which probably has too much power, the judicial branch that literally believes that corporations are people, and then there's the legislative branch which presumable was named ironically  since it hasn't passed meaningful legislation in nearly a decade .  Wait, no I'm thinking of a different institution .  The Bank of Nerdfighteria's three branches are the giving branch, the lending branch, and the spending branch . Let's start with the giving branch .  The Foundation to Decrease World Suck, our actual real-life charity, has finished paying out well over a million dollars in grants from the 2015 Project for Awesome .  The money went to all of these awesome organizations listed here and it's doing lots of good all over the world . For instance, I recently heard from Water . org that Nerdfighteria has just funded a capped spring water well in Northern Ethiopia that serves over 2000 people .  So far this year, the Foundation to Decrease World Suck has just over $73,000 in the bank .  Most of that money comes from Vlogbrothers ad revenue .  Right now half of the revenue from this channel goes to the Foundation to Decrease World Suck and half goes to sponser online education projects .  So thank you for watching the ad before this video .  Hopefully there was an ad . Okay, let's move on to the lending branch .  The Nerdfighter Kiva group has now loaned more than $7 . 4 million to entrepreneurs around the world .  Also, more info about this in the doobly-doo, but Kiva has made some important steps to improves outcomes with their partners lately .   And then Hank there are two very exciting updates from the spending branch of our bank .  So in 2016 four crash course videos have gone up each week .  Like currently we're discussing literature, the history of games, physics, and philosophy .   But starting September 1st all the crash course Patreon money raised for the remainder of 2016 will go to fund an expansion of Crash Course in 2017 .  This will mean five videos a week by the spring of 2017 and hopefully six videos a week by the end of the year, including our first forays into higher ed topics like advanced physics and athropology .   And we're really excited to be growing, we're also working to systematically translate Crash Course videos into multiple languages .  By the way, if you happen to have the talent and time to volunteer to help with that translation project please let us know via the form in the doobly-doo .  So yeah, thanks to everyone's help on Patreon more Crash Course videos next year available in more languages .   And lastly, for more than a year now Joe and Stan in our office have been working with help and funding from Bill Gates' BGC3 organization to build out educational materials around Crash Course videos .  Like as you may be aware textbooks are ridiculously, astonishingly, stupifyingly expensive, and we've always felt like maybe a better price for the would be, you know, free .  Because if high quality curricular materials were available for free online in would allow schools to save money on textbooks and invest that money in their most important resource, which is teachers .  So last week Crash Course released it's first full curriculum which covers AP World History with readings and primary sources and assessment tools for both students and teachers .  Hopefully it's like a textbook, plus worksheets and writing prompts, except it's easily downloadable, frequently updated, and free .  You can find it all at thecrashcourse . com or there's a link in the doobly-doo below .  We're really looking forward to getting feedback from teachers and students so we can continue to update and improve the curriculum .  This is just the beginning and it's only one course but we're very excited about it so please check it out, share it with your teachers, and hopefully we'll find funding to create more full courses in the future .  I want to again thank everyone at BGC3 and also everyone who supports Crash Course on Patreon .  You can find Crash Course's Patreon by clicking here or there's a link in the doobly-doo .  There are lots of great perks available to Patrons although by far the biggest perk is knowing that without you Crash Course literally would not exist .  So thanks . So that's the update from the Bank of Nerdfighteria, Nerdfighters if you have questions I will be in comments .  Hank DFTBA, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  So several months ago, YouTube came to us to talk about a product they were working on .  I should stop here and say that, in general, I dislike change .  Like I think YouTube reached its peak in July of 2007 when our channel looked like this and the site went down for maintenance almost every single Wednesday .  I enjoy anachronisms like physical books and, I guess, headphone jacks .  So, I was a little dubious, but I'm genuinely excited about this change, which debuts today .   But first, let me back up and talk about a seemingly unrelated thing . For the last couple years, I've wanted to make a YouTube show about health and fitness called 100 Days, where two ordinary people spend 100 days eating well, exercising a lot, and doing everything that's been proven by randomized controlled trials to improve your health .  We'd work with experts to learn why it's so hard to make lasting changes in your life and along the way, we would measure our progress by testing stuff we want to be better at .  You know, like concentration tests and push-up contests and hamstring flexibility, which at the moment for me is just a little bit limited .  But there were two problems with this show .  First, I didn't want to exercise and eat well for 100 days because sitting and pizza aren't just a way of life .  They're my way of life .   And second, we wanted to make this show with lots of infographics and pictures and recipes and live shows so it would feel deeply connected .   But to do that would mean maintaining a billion new social media profiles - a thought I just could not stomach . This has been an ongoing problem because we've always had to build homes off YouTube for the non-video community stuff .  Like if you want to submit a photo or a painting to The Art Assignment you have to do so via Tumblr or Twitter or Facebook .  We can't post worksheets or essays to accompany Crash Course videos, and to fully engage with The Project for Awesome, you have to follow us on social media . YouTube has always thought of itself as being about video .   But for many of us, it's mostly been about community .  I'd argue that the best YouTube channels aren't just shows you lean back and watch, they're communities you're part of .   And for a long time, that was seen as YouTube's great weakness .  Like in the early days, YouTube actually released a product called Lean Back that allowed you to watch videos without engaging with them .  Because advertisers, especially back then, thought engaged viewers were bad news .  Like for one thing, engaged viewers are less likely to watch ads .   But also, the idea that mass media could be made and shaped directly by the masses was kind of terrifying .  But in spite of it all, YouTube has continued to be a community platform and today, they have embraced that with the release of the community tab .  This allows channels to post texts, images, live videos and both GIFs   and GIFs .  These will show up in your mobile subscription feeds and on desktop here, in the community section .  You can also sign up to get notifications when we post to the community tab with say, a book review or a live show or results from the Nerdfighter census . It's still in beta testing, there are lots of features to come but I'm really excited about it because 1 .  It means Hank and I can finally make our YouTube channels the community hubs we've always wanted them to be, 2 .  Live shows are now easier and better .  You can see this today when I do a live Question Tuesday .   And 3 .  In our beta testing the quality of discourse in comments in the community tab has been great .  Like upvotes actually work and also, it's much easier to moderate . I just realized it sounds like I'm being paid to say these things .  To be clear, I'm not .  We have never and will never accept any kind of corporate sponsorship on Vlogbrothers .   But we did work closely with YouTube on the development of the community tab and I do think it's awesome . Which brings me back, at last, to 100 Days .  So, starting January 1st, you'll be able to watch my best friend Chris and me try to have, like, the healthiest midlife crisis ever .  The show will include not just videos but exercise routines, recipes, live shows and text posts .   And it will all live right here on YouTube, a community platform that also hosts videos . Chris incidentally is known to Nerdfighteria primarily for once appearing in a Vlogbrothers video wearing a Speedo .   But trust me, you'll like him .  So you can head over to youtube . com/100days and subscribe now if you want to see me perform, like, aerial acrobatics and hopefully eventually someday touch, if not my toes, at least my, like, mid-shins . In a live show later today, I'll be answering your questions about 100 Days and look forward to your ideas about how to make it awesome .  Hank, I will see you on Friday .  Actually, I will probably see you before then, thanks to the community tab .                 
It occurs to me now that I've done this that I should have set up some place to put my phone .  But I didn't do that .  So maybe I'll do that now . Cause I've got all sorts of things to do that with, around .  I've got this skull .  That might be useful .  Maybe I'll just put him there and I'll lean my phone against that .  That'll be high enough up ?  Meh, g- good .  Fairly good .  Hey, there's four people here .  Obviously, we just figured out that we were able to do live streams on YouTube and put it out only to the community, and that's you .  This is a fairly echo-y room .  I find it frustrating, in fact .  Even after we put all these things on the wall  .  .  . still making noise .    Best of the current Crash Courses for someone who's trying to drive a wedge into the Crash Course staff's heart .  Not everybody believes that all the Crash Courses have lots going for them, but I'm glad you like it .  Um, so hey .  How's it goin ?  John just did a chat .  I am doing that now too .   And you would think the lighting would be better .  It just doesn't like w- I'll be right back .  Try another light .  Is this gonna be better or worse ?  Better or worse ?  Worse .  I look like I'm on fire .  I've got the holy life inside of me .  *Ming ! * I'll just turn down the lights a little bit .    How's that look ?  You know, honestly, exactly the same .  So it may not be the light's problem .  It looks very similar .  Um, John is mad at me now for doing a live show !  Can we only do one a day ?  Is there a rule ?  I figured that people maybe- you have this shirt ?  You do not .  I- where'd you get it if you have this shirt ?  'Cause I know where I got mine and I know what brand it is, 'cause I was just looking at it as I was about to put it on for a SciShow, 'cause I needed to change shirts because I was doin a bunch .   And I often get compliments on this shirt, John .   And I bought it myself at the mall .  John, I feel like we're having a conversation that's not going well .  Maybe you should just call me .  You're not typing fast enough .  Everyone is waiting for you to say something- because until I let you- let it go- what ?  Because until you let it go I can't let it go and I'm getting tired of this whole situation .  I don't know who you're talking to or what you're even talking about .  Is it the shirt, or is it the fact that I'm doing a livestream ?  Which thing ?  I'll take questions, from John, or from other people .  There's 87 people watching but only 6 people have liked this .  Do you not like it ?  104 people watching and only 6 people have liked it .  Come on .   
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday . I really liked your video on Friday and I thought maybe today we could continue our discussion of failure by turning to the question of my new book . So, it's been almost 5 years since my most recent novel, The Fault in Our Stars, was published .  Why nothing new since then ?  Well, in my case, because a very public success happened to coincide with a series of very private failures .  The Fault in Our Stars was my fourth novel, but the experience of publishing it was vastly different from everything that came before .  Like, for context, in the week after it was published, The Fault in Our Stars sold more hardcovers than my 3 three previous novels had ever sold, combined, which, to be clear, was wonderful news .   But at the same time I was hard at work on this new book about teenage identity thieves because, y'know, that's what I did after publishing a book: I wrote a new one .   But it wasn't working .  Now apparently the concept itself was flawed .  I've always wanted to write a proper thriller but I'm no good at writing any of the proper thriller stuff .  Y'know, like, I'm not great at action scenes, or knowing how guns work, or plot .   But also I'd started to feel this intense pressure, like people were watching over my shoulder as I was writing . By April of 2012 I ditched most of the identity thieves story and reimagined it as a story about two boys who find something terrible while exploring storm drains in their little hometown .  I wrote about 100 pages of that over the next few months, but none of it was ever very good, though .  Meanwhile, The Fault in Our Stars continued to sell, and in May of that year I read an amazing screenplay adaptation of the book, at which point I realized it might actually become a movie, and somewhere in that period my job stopped being  " Person Who Writes Books "    and became  " Person Who Wrote That One Book "    .  Like, I remember one night my best friend Chris saying to me,  " It must be weird getting all this money for something you did at Starbucks a couple years ago .  "  And it was weird !  I was elated and grateful that The Fault in Our Stars was reaching so many readers, but at the same time, I was terrified because I felt like I could never follow it up .   By the time the movie started shooting in the fall of 2013, I was failing to write a new book .  This one about teenage con artists .  I spent almost a year on that one before eventually giving up .  I remember being in a hotel room right after the movie came out, looking at these hundreds of pages as I realized they would never be a book and just sobbing .  Now I want to be clear here that these are high class problems I am very grateful to have .   But I also want to be honest with the fact that they are problems .  Writing had always been a safe and sane way for me to pour out my obsessiveness and recursive thinking .   But then suddenly it just didn't provide that release anymore and I realized y'know that I, I could stop .  Writing had become kind of miserable and as I devoted more of my time to Crash Course and the Art Assignment, I realized I have amazing work that I am so lucky to do .  I missed writing but in the way you miss someone you used to love .   And then about a year ago I went back to it .  I started writing something just for fun .  I kept saying that to Sarah,  " I'm just writing this for fun .  I'm just writing this because I think you'll like it "   But of course those turn out to be pretty good reasons to write .  Still though this is all kind of hard to talk about because the usual arc of these narratives is I had some failure but then I plowed through and found greater success than ever .   And I'm not at all sure that's how this story will end .  I don't know if I'll ever publish another book .   And if I do I don't know whether people are will like it .  I know they probably won't like it as much as they liked The Fault in Our Stars .  I hope I finish the book I'm working on, I hope you like it but I don't know .  I think what changed is I got okay with not knowing .  I used to be so certain .  I used to have all these unshakable beliefs about books and writing and how to be a writer .  Now my beliefs aren't just shakable, they're shaken .  That feels uncomfortable but also productive .  .  .  I think .  Hank, I gotta get back to writing .  I'll see you on Friday .   
So my first time voting I was 18 .  I wish, I wish I had been 18 but in fact I was, like, 25, I am sorry .  I was living in Chicago and I was extremely nervous .  Like, things that make me nervous include standing in line, talking to strangers, and, you know, filling out ballots .  So I was pretty freaked out .   And when it came time for me to go into the voting booth I accidentally voted for the wrong person for president, so I had to raise my hand and then someone came over and I said  " I'm sorry but I accidentally voted for the wrong person "  and then there was this whole process of spoiling the ballot and getting a new one and I was able to fill that one out correctly and then I successfully voted . What I learned from this experience is that even if voting goes poorly and you mess up, no-one will be mad at you .  In fact, what I've found at polling places wherever I've lived is that overwhelmingly people are just happy to be voting together .  As the President recently said  " Politics is not a spectator sport "  and since I have become a voter it has become one of the great privileges and pleasures of my life and I say that as someone who really, really does not like standing in line . So I hope you'll register to vote and I hope you'll vote .  If, like me, you're anxious about voting I encourage you to do it anyway .  You will be very, very happy that you did .  So whether you need to register or just make sure that your registration is current, you can do that at rockthevote . com . Lastly, I need to tag two of my friends to make videos about their first time voting .  I tag one of my all time favorite YA writers Sarah Dessen, and one of my all time favorite younger brothers Hank Green .  Thank you for watching .  Please vote in November, and as we say in my home town, don't forget to be a voter !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  I woke up in London a little bit jet lagged .  " Alright, let's go .  " The East End was also sleepy .  Tattoo parlors shuttered; the streets almost empty .  On the walk to the Tube, there was lots of graffiti to enjoy .  I made it to the station, stood on the right for a very fast escalator ride, which turned out to be timed perfectly, because there was the train, and then: boom, we were in Trafalgar Square . There we found lots of tourists, and statues of kings, and dandy-lions, and fashion models .  As well as this extraordinarily phallic 'thumbs-up sculpture . 'Mark was also filming all of this for the Art Assignment, by the way .  So soon there will be an 'Art Trip London' video, that will be like this one, except much better . Headed over to the National Portrait Gallery, where I saw Queen Elizabeth, Cardinal Wolsey, Thomas Cramner, and many other people who didn't want you to know they had necks . I was really impressed by the museum, and I found myself thinking that while portraits, are of course artworks, they are historical artifacts .  Like even now with images so easy to take and store, the pictures we hold on to tell us something about who, and what, mattered to us . Got a bit to eat then walked for a while and started playing a game called 'fancy-clock-has-the-time-wrong . ' Eight minutes slow .  Four minutes fast .  Not even close . We then made our way to the Royal Academy of the Arts, where an abstract expressionist show was brilliant, and also quite crowded .  We then walked past cupid, and Shakespeare getting crapped on by a pigeon, to the Somerset House, which as London real estate goes, seems like a pretty nice house -aside from the army of spoons in the courtyard .  We saw an astonishing number of masterpieces there, including this Seurat painting, and this Cezanne landscape -where you can start to see painting move toward abstraction .  There was a very early Picasso, and this famous painting by Degas, made around the Prussian siege of Paris in 1871 .  Degas paid the model with a single hunk of meat, which according to the wall label,  " She fell upon and devoured, raw .  "  There was also Renoir and Pissaro, Van Gogh and Manet, fancy clocks telling the wrong time, a queen with her puppy, and this painting by Goya, featuring the first recorded incidence of 'man-spreading . 'After we left, I caught some Drowzees .  London is lousy with Drowzees and masterpieces .  Later that afternoon, we took the subway to a gallery featuring this work from the Brazilian artist Lygia Pape .  The lines in this room, made by silver thread, appear and disappear as you walk around them, and its beautiful in a way that the camera can't capture .  The lines float and intertwine, responding to the light, and also to you .  The artist Ad Reinhardt once described his paintings as:  " Unmarketable, unphotographable, and unreproducable .  "   And that's how I felt in this room .  I can't explain it to you, and I can't show it to you, because it's unreproducable . These days our experiences almost don't feel real if you can't photograph them .  At times it feels like documenting a meaningful experience is more important than having the experience .  It's like 'pic-or-it-didn't-happen' has actually become true .   And even more weirdly, it feels to me sometimes like maybe we do things for the pic .  Like our choices are based on how well our lives will photograph, rather than how those lives actually make us feel .  Like, to use a tangential example, it's hard for me to know if I love this famous Van Gogh self-portrait, or if I just feel excited seeing it in so called 'real life,' after having seen so many photographs and reproductions of it . I guess I was thinking that looking at something isn't quite the same thing as looking at it through a lens .  Of course, these aren't entirely new questions .  For one thing, this installation was first made in 1977 .   But I think what I love so much about it is that you couldn't look at it through a lens, you had to be there .  So after a while, I put down my camera, and I was just, there . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .    
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  Let's talk about the health care proposals of Donald Trump and Hilary Clinton, but first, I should saythat if you're interested in healthcare or health in general, you should check out Healthcare Triage, hosted by Dr .  Aaron Caroll   . OK !  To understand their health care proposals, we need to look at the current health care system and its problems, so journey back with me to 2008 .  At the time, most Americans got insurance through private companies .  There was a publicly-funded program for the elderly to get insurance called Medicare .  Many low-income families got coverage through a publicly-funded program called Medicaid, and about fifteen percent of Americans had no health insurance at all .    So broadly speaking, back in 2008, our health care system had three huge problems .  The first was those fifteen percent of people without insurance .  Many people who didn't work for big companies, including me, literally could not get health insurance for any price because private insurers could deny you based on pre-existing conditions and for many other people, private insurance plans were just too expensive to afford .   And that brings me to our second big problem back in 2008 which was that our health care just costs too much .  We're spending sixteen percent of our nation's total economic output on healthcare .  Most other rich nations spend under ten percent .  Like out health care costs were so stupifyingly high that in the United States more tax dollars per capita went to health care spending than Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom, or Canada .  All those countries spending fewer tax dollars per person on health care had universal publicly-funded health care .  The United States had nothing close to that .  Also, lastly, for all this money we were spending not to insure everyone, we weren't getting particularly good health care outcomes .  Like, by almost any measure from life expectancy to medical errors to hospital admissions for preventable diseases, the United States was not near the top .  So then comes the Affordable Care Act of 2009   which was designed to address some of these problems, with the emphasis on the some .  The ACA was primarily designed to get more people health insurance .  About half of the newly insured were supposed to get Medicaid, which was expanded to include everyone making up to 138% of the poverty line and the other half was supposed to get insurance through exchanges, these marketplaces where everyone could get health insurance regardless of pre-existing conditions .   And the insurance would be affordable because households making up to 400% of the poverty line would have their insurance costs subsidized by the government on these exchanges .  The ACA also sought to reduce spending by lowering costs within Medicare and it raised some new taxes including one on medical devices .  So that let the rest of the US health care system largely unchanged .  So that was the basic idea .  Now, the ACA has never been fully implemented because a 2012 Supreme Court decision made the Medicaid expansion optional for states and 19 states have so far declined to do it, which means that millions of poor Americans remain uninsured .  That said, the ACA has been successful at reducing the number of uninsured people .  Today it's around 9 . 1 percent .   And it may have played a role - although experts disagree about this - in the slowing growth of health care costs in the United States .  For the 20 years before 2008, health care costs in the United States rose by an average of 8 percent; in the last five years, they've risen by an average of 5 . 5 percent .   But to be clear, costs are still rising faster than inflation and median weekly earnings .  Health care outcomes continue to lag behind and our health care system is still far, far more expensive than any other nation on Earth, although the gap with Europe has closed a bit . The ACA wasn't really designed to address those problems - and it hasn't .   And there are other problems too .  In the employer market, premiums and deductibles are rising as employers cover on average a smaller percentage of health care expenses than they did 10 years ago .  On the exchanges, some insurance companies are offering fewer plans and because insurers are now required to offer comprehensive coverage with no lifetime benefit limits, many people who previously had bare bones insurance plans have seen their insurance costs go way up . These are all real problems, but it's very important to understand that the structural shortcomings of the United States health care system are much, much older than Obamacare .  The ACA is not the reason our health care costs are so high and we know that because they were very high before the ACA . So with all that in mind, let's look at both candidates' health care reform proposals using analysis from the RAND Corporation, which is non-partisan and widely considered centrist . Let's start with Trump's plan .  First, he would repeal the ACA .  Now Trump has said he'll find ways to make sure that private insurers continue offering plans to people with pre-existing conditions but he hasn't said how this would be possible .  Trump would also change the way Medicaid is funded to block grants .  This would basically mean that states get to administer their own Medicaid programs but most analyses see these block grants over time involving lots of cuts .   And lastly, Trump would allow insurance companies to sell plans across state lines and he would also make all health insurance premiums tax deductible .   But remember these are deductions, not tax credits, so they would mostly benefit people with high incomes for reasons explained in this video .  Altogether, RAND analysis concludes, and I'm just gonna quote here,  " The Trump proposals decrease the number of insured, increase the out-of-pocket spending for consumers enrolled in individual market plans, and raise the federal deficit compared to the ACA .  " So here's how around 19 . 7 million people would lose their insurance if the ACA were repealed and Medicaid block grants would probably increase the number of uninsured further .  Sales of plans across state lines and tax deductible premiums would get some people insured but all in all, RAND concludes that about 20 . 3 million fewer Americans would have health insurance under Trump's plan .  Out-of-pocket expenses would go up according to RAND for two reasons .  First, because the tax deductions offered by the Trump plan are less generous than the tax credits offered by the ACA .   And secondly, they estimate that sales of plans across state lines would raise out-of-pocket expenses because there would be an increase in the so-called bare-bones plans .  These are plans with high co-pays or deductibles or limits to annual or lifetime benefits .  RAND estimates that the average annual out-of-pocket expenses per person including deductibles and co-pays and insurance premiums and everything would go from about $3,200 per person to $5,700 per person .   And the deficit would go up because with the repeal of the ACA, the taxes it raised would also be repealed as would the changes in Medicare reimbursement .  This would lower some taxes but most of the savings were in changes to Medicare .  So all in all, under Trump's plan according to RAND, the deficit would go up by about 5 . 8 billion dollars .   And I should add that all the non-partisan analyses I could find agreed on all three fronts: That Trump's plan would reduce the number of insured people, increase out-of-pocket costs, and increase the deficit . Okay let's move on to Hillary Clinton's proposals .  Clinton would amend the ACA in three big ways .  First, she would introduce a $2,500 tax credit or $5,000 for married couples filing jointly that could be applied to health care expenses over 5% of income .  So if you're a single person making $50,000 a year and you pay $5,000 a year in health insurance premiums, you would get a $2,500 tax credit .  Because this is a tax credit and not a deduction, it would be available to everyone, not just high-income households, but that also means it would be more expensive .  Secondly, Clinton would reduce the marketplace premium maximum .  I know this is a little confusing, healthcare policy makes tax policy look like a pleasant walk in the park .   But basically, right now the cost of health insurance premiums on the marketplace exchanges is effectively capped at 9 . 6% of income .  To not benefit from the cap, a family of four has to make $96,000 a year or more .  Basically Clinton's plan would lower the cap from 9 . 6% to 8 . 5% for most households, but of course that program would also cost money .   And then lastly, and maybe most interestingly, Clinton would offer a public insurance option on the exchanges .  This would allow anyone, not just seniors and low-income people, to get their insurance from the government .  RAND hasn't yet updated its analysis on the public option, but basically it would probably be cheaper than private insurance because it would share administrative costs with Medicare .   And so it would slightly reduce the deficit by reducing health care subsidies .  So all in all, according to RAND, I'm just gonna quote again,  " All of the policies considered increase the number of insured people and reduce consumers' out-of-pocket spending on health care .  "  RAND estimates that the Clinton tax credit alone would lead to 9 . 6 million more people getting health insurance and that households of all income levels would see their out-of-pocket health care expenses go down .  The biggest reduction in health care costs would be for families making between 30 and 60 thousand dollars a year but they would go down for everyone .   But of course these programs would also increase the federal deficit by what RAND estimates to be 90 billion dollars .  So that is RAND's summary .  Trump's plan would lead to significantly higher out-of-pocket costs, fewer insured people and a modestly higher budget deficit .  Clinton's plan would insure more people, lower out-of-pocket costs but raise the deficit more .   But of course you have to consider those deficits in the broader contexts of the candidates' budget and tax proposals, and to be clear overall under Trump's proposals the budget deficit would be trillions of dollars more than under Clinton's proposals .  The other question of course is will either of these proposals significantly reduce the overall cost of U . S .  health care, and the answer is probably not .  The Trump campaign will argue that selling policies across state lines will increase competition but that is deeply contested .   And also, even in the rosiest projections, it wouldn't decrease spending much .  The Clinton campaign, meanwhile, will say that a public option would put real price pressure on private insurers, and it might but I'll put a link in the doobly-doo explaining why a single-pair health care system would not magically fix the U . S . ' problems .  The truth is this is a complicated, multi-faceted problem and anyone trying to sell you simple solutions probably isn't telling you the whole story .   And that includes me, by the way, this is definitely only an introduction .  If you want to learn much more about health care policy and health insurance and different strategies for dealing with it, check out Healthcare Triage .  They've got a great video out now about Medicaid's return on investment and next week they'll have a much more comprehensive analysis on the candidates' health care plan so subscribe to them .  You can find sources as well as information about how to vote in the doobly-doo below .  Hank, I will see you on Friday, unless you have a child in the interim .  End screen !  Hank always says I need an end screen so I've put some videos here about health insurance, why you need it, what the health care system in the United States is like, why it's so incredibly complicated, also if you're looking for a hot slice of tax policy that video is just one click away .   And !  Rosianna drew you a bunny to cheer you up .  Thanks Rosianna .   
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  Today I want to talk about the rigging of U .  S .  presidential elections .  So travel back with me to the election of 2004 where incumbent republican George W .  Bush defeated democrat John Kerry . Across the country Bush received about 3 million more votes that year then Kerry did .    But of course the popular vote doesn't matter in US Presidential Elections because of the Electoral College .  This is a strange and anachronistic feature of our presidential elections, explained in detail by CGP Grey here but quick overview .  .  .  Every state is allotted a certain number of electoral votes based on congressional representation .  So every state has 2 senators so they get 2 electoral votes and from there it's decided by population: like California has 55 electoral votes whereas Montana has 3 .  Right, so most states   allot their electoral votes to the candidate who gets the most votes in that state .  A candidate needs 270 total electoral college votes to win and because you might win some states by a wide margin and lose others very narrowly, it is possible to win the popular vote in the country, but lose the election .  In fact, that's how George W .  Bush was elected in 2000 .  Also if 3 or more candidates get some electoral votes and that prevents any one candidate from getting a majority of electoral votes, the president is actually chosen by the US House of Representatives .  This has happened a couple of times in US History including in 1826 when Congress chose John Quincy Adams to become president even though  Andrew Jackson had received more votes .  Anyway if you're thinking all of this sounds bananas, I agree .   But one of the very few even arguable upsides to the Electoral College is that is makes US presidential elections extremely hard to rig because we're not actually having one election .  We're having 51 elections each governed by the separate states .   But in fact it's even more complicated than that because in every state, counties and townships have their own elections with their own independent oversight, so we're having thousands of elections .   And this massively decentralized system protects against widespread fraud .   So back to 2004, there's not much question that George W Bush won the most votes in that election .  The question is Ohio .  Kerry lost Ohio by about 118,000 votes .  If he'd won, he would have been elected President and lots of people on the left, including by many accounts John Kerry himself, believe that voter suppression and possible ballot fraud essentially rigged that election .  Like there was a Rolling Stone cover story about it, you can still find blogs making the case .  The claim goes like this: Ohio's Secretary of State, who oversees elections was a Republican who engineered long lines at polling places .  Also he purged voters from the Rolls and failed to get the names of 25% of newly registered voters to polling places .   And also somehow, 150,000 votes in rural Ohio were switched from Kerry to Bush, possibly via hacking electronic voting machines, possibly via physically altering ballots . Here's what actually happened:  25% of newly registered voters did have to fill out provisional ballots which is ridiculous and speaks to how poorly the Ohio election was run that year .  However, almost exactly half of those people cast their ballots for George W Bush .  The voter rolls were purged because they are required by law to be purged because people die and/or move .  Actually, I guess I don't really need the and/or there, mostly they just die or move .  Right, also none of the 150,000 purportedly switched votes was actually switched .  There were however long lines at polling places which did disenfranchise voters but not in a way that would have affected the outcome of Ohio's presidential election . The 2004 Ohio Presidential Election was poorly run and it did not reflect the ideals  of our democracy, but it also did not steal the election from John Kerry .  Like the Democratic Party's own investigation concluded  " Despite the problems on Election Day, there is no evidence from our survey that John Kerry won the state of Ohio "  .   But of course that report was written months later - the morning after the election, John Kerry still believed he might have won and he was furious with the partisanship he saw in the Ohio election but nonetheless he called George W Bush and conceded .  This is one of the central tenants of our country - we have fair elections where the outcomes are trusted broadly, if not universally, and when power changes hands, it does so peacefully .  Like it is sometimes said the greatest moment of George Washington's presidency was its final moment when he handed the office over to John Adams and created a precedent for how American leaders would seek power .  To paraphrase something George W Bush said recently, in American History, the office of the presidency is always more important than the person who holds it .  Now none of this is to say that our elections are perfect like voter suppression has been a hallmark of US voting and suppression efforts have disproportionately targeted systemically disadvantaged voters - the poor initially and then when the franchise was extended, women and people of colour .  Even today there are many political strategies for suppressing voters but voter suppression, which is real, is not the same thing as Widespread Fraud  which is not . In most states, observers from both major political parties monitor poll workers to prevent official fraud and fraud among voters is incredibly rare in the United States .  With very few exceptions, people do not vote when they are not allowed to, or impersonate voters or vote multiple times or vote when they are dead .   The voter rolls may include dead or otherwise ineligible people because the rolls aren't kept up to date or purged often enough but that does not mean fraudulent votes will be cast .  Like you may have heard that in-person voter fraud is as uncommon in the United States as  dying from a lightning strike, but that's just not true .  In the past 14 years, there have been 31 substantiated cases on in-person voter fraud in US elections and 36 people have been killed by lightning this year alone . Now fraud by absentee ballots is somewhat more common because its easier to fill out someone's ballot if it's mailed in, but it is not widespread and it is not systematic . You might hear about a study showing that 6 . 4% of non-citizens living in the United States voted in 2008 .   That study has been thoroughly debunked . You may have heard that certain voting machines can be easily rigged .  That is just not true .   And you many have heard that voting machines made by liberal George Soros will be used in 16 states this year .  In fact, George Soros has no ownership stake in the company in question, Smartmatic, and furthermore Smartmatic machines will be used in 0 states in 2016 . By the way, links to non-partisan sources in the dooblydoo as usual . So, the US Presidential Election will not be rigged anymore than the one in 2004 was .  What's different now is that one of the major party presidential candidates is loudly and consistently claiming that the election will be rigged - that there will be widespread voter fraud; that people may vote 10 times; that undocumented immigrants will vote and on, and on, and on .  These are all simply lies .  They are not substantiated in any way and normalizing those conspiracy theories frankly scares the crap out of me because it means fewer Americans will trust our elections even when they are free and fair .  I guess I understand that fear mongering is part of US politics, but undermining the legitimacy of our political institutions without cause isn't .  Hearing that unfounded rhetoric from a Presidential candidate  is a new and disturbing development in American political discourse so I want to be very clear: your vote will count, the election will not be rigged . If you are fortunate enough to be an eligible voter in the United States of America, please make your voice heard .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .  
Good morning, Hank !  It is Tuesday, November 8th, 2016 .  It's Pizzamas !  The most magical time of the year !  So, every year during Pizzamas, we make videos on Vlogbrothers every weekday for two weeks .  Unfortunately, Hank, you scheduled the arrival of your child poorly and you're on paternity leave .  What's that ?  Oh, apparently you can't schedule the arrival of a child .   But Pizzamas is full of magic, and so as part of that, you managed to somehow upload a video during your paternity leave .  Not just a video, by the way, but a video with you dancing in it .  That's my favorite kind of Vlogbrothers video .  Did you know that Hank Green was named Winter Park High School's Best Dancer in 1998 ?  It's true . Wait, what just happened to my face ?  It's a Pizzamas miracle !  My mustache is back !  Also, in totally predictable news, I have cut myself shaving .  By the way, I have been growing a beard for two months for this joke, so I hope you enjoy how ridiculous I look .  So the Pizza John story is so complicated that I can't even really bring myself to explain it to new nerdfighters, but Hank made a video a while back with the highlights .   But basically, every year there's a bunch of limited edition Pizza John merch, like this year there's this La Croix Pizza John .  There's also this Pizza John hoodie .  Hank reached out to a bunch of his favorite T-shirt designers, and many of them designed awesome Pizza John shirts .  You can find them all at dftba . com .  Also, all the Pizza John stuff is only available during Pizzamas, and then it will disappear forever .  Ugh, God, I just look so bad with this mustache .  I look like a 39-year-old man impersonating a nine-year-old impersonating a police officer .  It's even worse than the one from last year, but you never know what gifts Pizzamas is gonna bring . Wait a second, hold up, back up the tape for a second .  Did I just say,  " It is Tuesday, November 8th, 2016 "  ?  November 8th, why is that date important ?  Oh right, it's because the Pizza John PJs are being made right here in Indianapolis on November 8th .  I actually prefer to call them the PJ PJs .  Alright, I gotta head over to the pajama factory .   And for better or worse, I'm taking my mustache with me .  Quick story: I didn't get this on video because I'm a bad vlogger who's terrified of pulling out his camera in public places except for airports, but I just got a cup of coffee, and after I ordered, the woman behind the counter said,  " I mustache you if you would like room for cream, "  and I just wanna say for the record, well played . Alright, Hank, I've arrived at Krazy Klothes !  Time to go see my pajamas !  I'm John, nice to meet you . Person: Hi, John, nice to meet you .  So first Debby lays out the fabric, then it goes through this amazing machine, where it is imprinted with my mustachioed face .  Now, there are some parts of the process that are automated, but every pair of Pizza John pajamas is cut and sewn by hand right here in Indianapolis .   And when they're all done, they look like this .  I think that's all I had scheduled for November 8th .  Just kidding !  I have to go vote .  I already texted myself my sample ballot .  By the way, on my phone, I've got this great Pizza John popsocket .  It's so useful !  Never not self-promoing .  Quick side note: If you're an American and you can vote, listen to the man with the mustache .  Look up your polling place in the dooblydoo .  If you need a refresher on anything you might need to bring to the polls, go to youtube . com/howtovoteineverystate and look up your state .   And go vote !  You can do this !  I'm about to do it with a mustache, wearing a portrait of myself with a mustache . Okay, I'm on my way into my polling place .  And now I have voted .  Again, if you need voting resources, you can find some in the dooblydoo below .  Happy Pizzamas, and happy Election Day !  I'm not gonna lie, I'm a little bit nervous, but I'm just-- I'm just trying to keep my cool .  Who am I kidding, I'm a lot bit nervous .  Hank, I will not see you tomorrow, but I'll see somebody on Vlogbrothers .  Vote !                 
Good morning Hank it's Wednesday .  We were gonna have a video from the DFTBA . com warehouse today but I thought I'd make one instead . So it appears that more Americans voted for Hillary Clinton than Donald Trump in the US presidential race, but the presidential race is decided by Electoral College votes and Donald Trump won most of them so he is the President Elect . Most, if certainly not all of the people watching this video wanted Hillary Clinton to become president - I know I did - and for many of us the results of the election are devastating . I think part of what makes it so hard for some people is that Donald Trump has often attacked not what his opponents believe but who they are - their race, their gender, their religion and more - and it is painful and scary to be called dangerous or less-than by a man who becomes President Elect of the United States, and I don't wanna minimize that fear or trauma because I believe that it is real and important . I also wanna say that I'm sorry .  I'm sorry that we've let our political discourse become so hateful, and I'm sorry that we've let our echo chambers become so sealed off that it is as unfathomable to me why someone would support Donald Trump for President as it is to many Trump supporters why I would support Hillary Clinton . I spoke with hundreds of undecided voters in the days before the election and what struck me most was how different our information was .  In many cases we had the same concerns - the environment, or healthcare or tax policy - but we were working with completely different data sets . Our community by the way is also an echo chamber - just four percent of the nerdfighters who filled out the census this year said they would vote for Donald Trump - but I don't know how to make our community more inclusive without opening it up to cruelty and hatred . We have to get better at listening to each other and challenging each other constructively and generously but I worry that the very architecture of the social internet might make that impossible .  Honestly I feel lost and I am looking to you for guidance and clarity as I have for almost a decade now .  But the world doesn't end today as Saladin Ahmed wrote last night,  " it's our job to fight those in power and stick up for the powerless, that stays the same no matter who's president, "  as Lin-Manuel Miranda wrote,  " I love this country and there's more work to do than ever, "  and as Kamala Harris said,  " this is a time to fight for who we are .  " I think that this will be a tough time in US history, I hope it won't be, but I think it will be .   But I also think our nation is and always must be bigger than any of its leaders and that our leaders are and always must be answerable to the people . So it's always our job to stand together and make sure the government does its job - that it afford equal protection under the law to all citizens, that the rights of all are protected, and that our government's policies are fiscally sound and carefully considered . Change doesn't only happen on election night and it doesn't only happen in the Oval Office, and it is up to us to find the places where our skills and talents meet the needs of our community and the world and to do the hard work to make life better for all .  And on that front, I am hopeful . So ten days ago my nephew Orin was born and bringing that baby into the world was an act of hope on the part of his parents .  I am glad for their hope and am heartened by it and I do not believe it was misguided .  That child was born into an America that is better than the one his grandparents were born into, and it was made better by people who's hope from restaurant counters in Alabama to the beaches of Normandy helped them stand together and hold the line in circumstances vastly darker than I pray most of us will ever see . I don't think hope is idealistic or silly I think it is the founding emotion of our species, and it is not naive to hope that we can bend the arc of American history toward justice because we've seen our ancestors do that in the face of unimaginable difficulty . As the great American poet of the human heart wrote,  "  " Hope "  is the thing with feathers - /That perches in the soul - / And sings the tune without the words - / And never stops - at all - " Take care of yourself, and take care of each other .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday .  Today is the ninth day of Pizzamas, so to celebrate, today's video comes to you in nine very special parts .  That was part one, the intro .  Part Two: The unabashed Promotion of Saleable Goods .  So there are only a few days left to order all your Pizzamas stuff from dftba . com .  All these beautiful Pizza John shirts and the Pizza John PJs and everything else is only available 'til the end of Pizzamas . Part Three: Good News .  So I don't want to minimize or ignore the torrent of bad news currently washing over the world, but I did want to call your attention to one piece of extraordinarily good news that I think has gone under-reported .  It's just been announced that global carbon emissions are expected to be nearly flat in 2016, marking the third straight year of no carbon emission growth .  That's really good news .  Unfortunately, it's not good enough news, because emissions are still far too high to limit post-industrial warming to below two degrees Celsius .   But it's important because it underscores that humanity can reach its other goals without increasing emissions .  Like, the global economy grew by about 3% this year, and both poverty and disease burden were reduced . Part Three  : Bad News .  The UN has just reported that 2016 will almost certainly be the hottest year in recorded human history .   And worrisomely, that record will likely only stand until 2017 .  Climate change is real, humans are causing it, and the people of the future will judge us on how we dealt with it .  Part Five: More Good News .  AFC Wimbledon, the fan-owned English soccer team who wear DFTBA on their shorts, have had an astonishingly successful first season in the third tier of English football .  Seventeen games into the season, they are just three points from a playoff spot, while the franchise currently playing in Milton Keynes is in the relegation zone .  All of this is just further proof that we are living in the best sports timeline of the entire multiverse, and also the worst everything else timeline . Part Six: Unabashed Promotion of Saleable Goods .  While you're over at dftba . com picking up this comfortable and fashionable Pizza John hoodie, why not buy an AFC Wimbledon Nerdfighteria scarf ?  All proceeds go to the club, and maybe if we sell enough scarves, they will make it back to the playoffs, and I will get to go to Wembley and feel like this again . Part Seven: More Bad News .  So Hank, one of my favorite songwriters, Leonard Cohen, died last week .  He was everything I wanna be when I grow up: empathetic and smart without ever being condescending or cold, and he also gave me one the central ideas in my book Paper Towns .  I'm gonna put a link to some of my favorite Leonard Cohen songs in the dooblydoo below for you to enjoy . Part Eight: More Good News .  Amid loss, there is still great art being made in the world .  Quick side story, when I was fifteen, I wrote this extremely sincere and terrible paper for English about how there could never be another great work of fiction because Dostoevsky was dead .   And then like four months later, we read Toni Morrison's Song of Solomon, and Tony Kushner's Angels in America, and I was like,  " Oh .  .  .  oh, okay .  I would like to file a retraction .  " Anyway, twenty years later, Dostoevsky is still dead and there are still truly great books being written .  Most recently I had been completely astonished by this book: What Is Not Yours Is Not Yours, but I'll have many more book recommendations in my forthcoming holiday gift book roundup .  In the meantime, if there are books that you would suggest to me, please do so in comments, thanks . Part Nine: The Outro .  So I think I'm gonna close out my part of Pizzamas on Thursday with an old-fashioned Question Tuesday, because, you know, what better day to do it ?  So please leave your questions, ideally brief ones in the comment section below .   And I thought I'd leave you today with some of my favorite Leonard Cohen lines: Ring the bells that still can ring .  Forget your perfect offering .  There's a crack in everything .  That's how the light gets in . Endscreen !  Oh look it's that book that I liked and Pizzamas merch and a couple of my favorite Leonard Cohen songs and perhaps most importantly, a bunny from Rosianna .  Self-Care Bunny is here to remind you to take care of yourself because there is only one of you, and the world is lucky to have you .                 
Good morning, Hank !  It's Thursday .  It's Question Thursday, the day that I answer real questions from real nerdfighters .  Let's get right to it . How's the new book coming along ?  In general, the less you hear me talking about it, the better it's going .  Who do you look up to most in the world ?  My parents, and then, secondarily, Dwayne  " The Rock "  Johnson . How do you want to be remembered ?  I'd like to be remembered mostly as a father and a husband and a sponsor of AFC Wimbledon . What is your response to critics who say your novels are pretentious ?  Mmmm .  .  .  Yeah .  Do you have any advice for a decathlete ?  Wait, are we talking about like running and jumping decathlon or academic decathlon ?  Because if it's running and jumping decathlon, I advise you to run fast and jump high .  Or far, I don't really know the rules .  If we're talking about academic decathlon, I advise you to specialize in art history and economics . Can you juggle ?  Yes, but only tasks . What's the weirdest animal you've ever met ?  Mmmm .  .  .  Probably Maureen Johnson .  What John Green quote are you most proud of ?  I'm pretty fond of  " Imagining the future is a kind of nostalgia, "  but it's not actually my line .  It's something Sarah said to me on our first date .   And I was like,  " Hold on a second, "  and I grabbed a napkin, and I wrote it down, and I went home, and put it in Looking for Alaska .  I did ask for her permission, for the record . How many copies of Harry Potter do you own ?  We only have one copy of each book, except for book four, which we have two copies of .  This one was on Quentin's nightstand in the Paper Towns movie .  If all the characters in your books ran for President, which one would have your vote ?  I feel like Hazel's mom from The Fault in Our Stars would be a pretty good president .  You know, like, cool under pressure, thoughtful, cautious, played by Laura Dern . Favorite candy bar ?  I mean, guys, come on, I'm literally sponsored by Snickers .  Favorite fictional place ?  Hogwarts .  Apple pie or pumpkin pie ?  Pumpkin .  Favorite cheese ?  Havarti .  Go-to Chipotle order ?  Barbacoa salad, no rice, black beans, extra mild salsa, just a little bit of cheese, and guacamole, which, yes, I know is extra . Favorite Pizza John design ?  That's like asking me to pick between my children .  I love them all differently, but equally .  What should I get my girlfriend for our four-year anniversary ?  She already got a Pizzamas coffee mug for our three-year anniversary on your recommendation .  I got a list here of all the anniversary presents .  It says the first year is paper, year fifty is gold .  It says here that year four is actually the Pizza John hoodie . Will you mention The Road to Nerdfighteria ?  Yeah, it's this amazing project where nerdfighters around the world talk about how they found Nerdfighteria .  Link in the dooblydoo .  Would you ever consider becoming President of the United States ?  No, I would be very bad at that job, and it involves a lot of things I find very unpleasant, like shaking hands with strangers and asking rich people for money . John, why aren't you Snapchatting ?  So a few months ago, I turned my phone into a dumb phone that does nothing but text, make phone calls, and play Pokemon Go .  So I guess it's not that dumb, but this change in my life has been kind of wonderful, even if I do miss Snapchat a little .  How do you stay informed about current events ?  This is another change I made about a year ago .  I read The Economist, The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, and my hometown paper, The Indianapolis Star .  I used to think that reading whatever was on my social media feed was the best way to stay informed, but now I've become a little bit suspicious of that proposition .  How do you feel about social media, anyway ?  You know how sometimes you're in a really intense romantic relationship, and you can kind of tell that the candle is burning at both ends and will not last the night ?   And your friends are like,  " Maybe you guys should break up, "  and you know maybe you should, but you're having a lot of fun, and it's not like you're gonna get married, you know, I mean, this isn't serious, is it ?  Yeah, kind of like that . Why do you read fiction ?  Two reasons, really .  First, for consolation .  Like, I understand in the abstract that I am not alone, but reading good fiction helps me feel unalone in like the deepest ways .  You know, it makes me feel like even my inexpressible fears and demons don't separate me from humanity .  And then, secondly, I think it's nice and maybe even important to escape the prison of your consciousness for a while and try to live in someone else's mind .   And for me, reading stories is like the most efficient way out of myself . If I make my question a reminder that Pizzamas ends tomorrow and all these amazing Pizzamas wonders are only available for one more day at dftba . com, will you make it the last question ?  Yes .  Yes I will . Hank, you'll see me on Tuesday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . It's Thanksgiving week here in the United States, so today I thought I would share with you a story of gratitude . So, several months ago Sarah got me tickets to see the musical Hamilton in New York City and I should say that Sarah and I are both huge fans of Hamilton .  Like we've listened to the cast recording hundreds of times and now we were going to have this once in a lifetime opportunity to see the show with the original cast and we were going to go to some art galleries and visit all our favourite places from back when we were first married and lived in New York .  So, we got to the airport a little early and hurray our flight was on time so we settled in to an airport bar for some snacks and we were debating whether I should direct message Lin-Manuel Miranda who, not to brag, follows me on Twitter and generally feeling sort of giddy and then I took a bite of my sandwich and more or less immediately knew that we were not going to see Hamilton after all .  A bit of relevant background, I have this weird disease called Eosinophilic Esophagitis .  Basically I have this mild-ish inflammation of my esophagus, which usually is not a problem, but then very occasionally food will get stuck part of the way down my esophagus .   And that's a real bummer because when it happens I can't even successfully swallow my own spit so I just sort of throw up every 2 or 3 minutes for several hours until a doctor sticks a tube down my throat and clears the blockage .  So okay, I can't even peel away all the layers of luck and privilege that led to this moment of misfortune in the Indianapolis airport .  The ability to afford a Broadway show and a trip to New York City, the joy of a spouse who loves you enough to get you Hamilton tickets, access to excellent medical care so your oesophageal blockage is an inconvenience rather than a catastrophe, the list goes on and on .   But still I was pretty bummed out when we had to leave the airport and go to the hospital .  Now of course it wasn't hard to find a happy home for our Hamilton tickets, and the airline   was amazingly cool about refunding our tickets .   But, yeah I was still in a pretty foul mood partly because I was vomiting every 2 minutes and partly because I don't love reminded that what I think of as my Self is, in fact, wholly dependent upon an unreliable and unpredictable machine called my body .  Okay so after several hours at the hospital, a woman named Carmen came by to transport my hospital bed and me to the Endoscopy Room .  Along the way she asked if I had kids, and I said yeah, and she said that it's nice that your wife can stay with you when you go through this and I was like  " Well we were supposed to be on vacation together !  "   And then she said that maybe when you guys get home tonight you can watch a movie together, and I was like maybe and then she said  " So, you are married and you have kids .  Do you like your job ?  "   And I said  " yeah "  .   And then she says  " Well, you've got the basics covered .  "    And then I was in the O . R .  and then I was unconscious and then I could swallow again and I woke up thinking  " Well, I've got the basics covered .  "  That night Sarah and I went home and watched a movie .  It was a pretty good movie actually .  Since then I have thought that day, and Carmen, many times .  I love my friends and family and I am loved by them; I've got the basics covered .    OK, so flash forward 6 months to last week .  We have just started filming our new health and fitness show, 100 Days .  Starting January 1st, you can watch my best friend Chris and I try to have a healthy midlife crisis over at youtube . com/100Days .  Anyway, as part of this show we have to exercise 6 days a week, often at very odd hours because of our work schedules .  So last Wednesday I had to wake up at 5:10 in the morning to go to a spin class and I was not psyched about it .    So I walk into this spin class and there's Carmen !   And she says  " Hey John, remember me ?  "  and I say  " Yeah "  and she says  " I'm your spin instructor .  This is what I do before work .  "   And, of course, it turned out to be an excellent spin class .  So this Thanksgiving I am grateful to Carmen .  When you are kind to strangers, you never know what it's gonna mean to them, but sometimes it means a great deal .  So thank you Carmen .  Happy Thanksgiving .  End Screen  End screen .  Here you'll find some Thanksgiving-y Vlogbrothers videos as well as a self-care bunny from Rosianna, who is here to remind you that Carmen thinks you're awesome .   And she knows from awesome .  
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  Today's video is like the human sternum: It comes to you in three parts . Part one: The Manubrium . So, the Tenth Annual Project for Awesome   begins at noon Eastern Time on Friday .  That's when you should upload your Project for Awesome videos and submit them to projectforawesome . com, but the Indiegogo fundraiser will go live at midnight tonight, and you can get lots of great perks for donating, including a Project for Awesome tote bag, P4A socks, an exclusive episode of Dear Hank & John, and an audio recording of me reading about fifteen pages from a thing I'm working on .  Wait a thing ?  What thing ?   " Thing "  isn't a very descriptive noun ! Yeah, I know, it's intentionally undescriptive .  Moving on ! Part Two: The Body .  The middle of the sternum is called the body ?  Anatomists are so bad at naming . So during the first half of the Project for Awesome, all the money raised will be split between Save the Children and Partners in Health, two organizations doing amazing jobs of helping the most vulnerable children and families around the world .   And thanks to matching donations, I am pleased to announce that during the first half of the P4A, your donations will be worth much more money .  A group of nerdfighters has gotten together with Hank and me to offer $300,000 in matching donations, and generous donors from both Partners in Health and Save the Children will also match your donations, meaning that starting at midnight tonight, every dollar you donate to the Project for Awesome is worth four dollars .  So thank you to all our matching donors . Part Three: The Xiphoid Process, which would be a pretty good name for a band . It's time for my holiday book roundup .  This year, I want to recommend twelve books that I think will make excellent holiday gifts .  Let's start with my three favorite grownup fiction books of the year . First, Underground Railroad by Colson Whitehead, which just won the National Book Award .  It is a haunting and brilliant novel about American slavery that imagines the underground railroad as an actual underground railroad . Second, Moonglow by Michael Chabon   .  One of the problems with being a proper genius like Michael Chabon is that after you publish several nearly perfect novels, people start saying,  " Oh yeah, it's another nearly perfect novel; he's written a bunch of those .  "   But no, this is an amazing book about war and memory and mental illness .  I loved it .  And lastly, What Is Not Yours Is Not Yours by Helen Oyeyemi, which is just a transfixing book of fairy tale-like short stories .  I promise you have never read anything like it before . For Sci-Fi fans, another story collection recommendation: Ted Chiang's Stories of Your Life and Others .  One of the stories in that book was the basis for the wonderful movie Arrival, but they're all mind-blowingly good . My other favorite Sci-Fi of the year was Nnedi Okorafor's Binti, which is about a girl who has to travel across the galaxy to attend university .  It's page-turny and exciting, but ultimately really moving . Young adult fiction !  I liked a lot of young adult books this year, but I'm gonna limit myself to three recommendations .  First, Ember in the Ashes, a thrilling and politically astute dystopian series .  Then there's The Raven Cycle by Maggie Stiefvater for fantasy fans .  It's just amazing .   And if you're looking for a good YA love story, I recommend The Sun Is Also a Star . For fans of YouTubers, there are lots of great books out there by YouTubers, but I wanna highlight Hannah Hart's Buffering because I think it's a beautifully written and extraordinarily touching memoir . Okay, nonfiction .  Two stand out for me this year .  First, I Contain Multitudes, a History of Microbes and Humanity's Relationship With Them .  That is a fascinating book, even if, like myself, you are not thrilled by the notion that half the cells inside of your body are not, strictly speaking, yours .   And secondly, Sapiens, a sweeping history of the last 250 thousand or so years that explores how humans became the dominant species on the planet, and also what our lives looked like back when we were, in the author's phrase,  " an animal of no significance .  "  And lastly, you know how you have, or I hope you have, a quirky and delightful friend who is just the most fascinating person you know ?  I have the perfect gift book for that person .  Textbook Amy Krouse Rosenthal, a wonderfully eccentric memoir that is enhanced by texting, really .  So Hank, those are twelve books I recommend this holiday season .  You will see me on Friday for the Tenth Annual Project for Awesome ! Endscreen !  Here's a couple guides on how to make a good Project for Awesome Video, and a link to the Indiegogo will be here once it's live .   And of course Self-Care Bunny hope you're being nice to yourself and eating your carrots, unless you're allergic to carrots .                 
Hi !  Two quick remarks: First, there's some glitter on my face throughout this video .  That's from my kid .  I'm sorry .   And secondly, just to be totally clear, this video is about giraffe mating .  Okay, I think we can start . Good morning, Hank it's Tuesday .  So yesterday someone tweeted us .   " You two do great work, have helped many, but sometimes I miss the days when you just made videos about giraffe sex .  "  Fair enough . So let's just recap the basics of giraffe sexuality .  The majority of giraffe sex, according to one study up to 90%, occurs between two males .  There's also occasional same-sex mounting between female giraffes, so heterosexual giraffe sex is not really the dominant form of giraffe sexuality .   But it is how the babies get made .  Now, giraffes can mate for procreation year round, but they tend to do it during the rainy season when food is less scarce because they're less stressed out and also because plentiful food makes the prospect of a giraffe pregnancy slightly less terrifying .  So here's how it goes down .  First, a male giraffe uses his head to poke a female giraffe in the butt .  This sometimes causes the female giraffe to pee, as you can see here, and then the male giraffe will smell and/or taste that pee to determine if the female is fertile, which she is about four days out of every two weeks .  If the pee tastes right and everybody is on board, the male will stand behind the female for a while until it is time for the magic to happen- the magic being a period of intercourse lasting less than two seconds .  This extremely brief encounter is followed by more than a year of pregnancy .  At the end of which, female giraffes usually produce a single calf, often born six feet tall and weighing over 150 pounds .  Needless to say, Hank, this is an inefficient process .  I mean, first, you've gotta get a male giraffe to sexual maturity, which takes at least seven years .  Then you gotta have enough food for the giraffes not to be stressed out .   And then you gotta have the right-tasting kind of pee .   And the you gotta be pregnant for 400 days .   And then you usually just get one baby, albeit a gigantic and adorable baby .   And even after that, your baby is very vulnerable to predators because it's so small and bad at running, but you can't, like, pick it up and put it in your pouch and hop away because you're not a marsupial ! All of this means that when giraffe populations go down, it's really hard for them to recover .   And they are going down .  In fact, a new report says that giraffe populations have fallen by around 40% since the 1980s .  There are now only about 98,000 giraffes in the world, and they've just been moved to threatened status bu The International Union for the Conservation of Nature .  The cause of the giraffe's decline is, of course, humans, mostly through habitat destruction and hunting .  So it can be really hard to fathom just how thoroughly humans have reshaped the planet in the last few hundred years, but here's a bit of context .  The total combined weight of living humans right now is around 300 million tons .  The total combined weight of our livestock from sheep to chickens to cows is around 700 million tons .   And the total combined weight of every non-human, non-domesticated large animal on earth, every penguin and elephant and shark, every whale and giraffe and lion, all of them combined, is less than 100 million tons .  When geologists talk about the Anthropocene, the geologic age of humans radically reshaping the planet, that's part of what they're talking about .  The earth's bacteria, by the way, have a combined biomass north of 350 billion tons, but I digress . Right, so Hank, I think giraffes have a reasonably good chance of surviving the Anthropocene despite their inefficient mating .   And that's not because their necks allow them to reach food other animals can't reach or because their kicks can literally kill a lion .  It's because humans like them .  We want them in the world, or at least I hope we do .   And it really is our choice .  If we lose the giraffe forever, there will only ever be one reason why: humans .  Since the Colombian Exchange began a little over 500 years ago, thousands of species have gone extinct, and almost all of those extinctions are directly attributable to us .  We decide .  We are deciding right now what the biodiversity of our planet is going to look like, not for the next 100 or 1,000 years but for many millions of years .   And maybe if we can accept that responsibility, we will begin to take it more seriously .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . So 2016 seems destined to be remembered as the year of the dumpster fire, but I don't really think that's fair, because, like anything, 2016 is vast and it contains multitudes .  Like, really, 2016 wasn't even one year, it was 7 . 4 billion different years to 7 . 4 billion different people . Anyway, Rosianna recently asked her viewers to share their best of 2016, and I found it so encouraging to hear about all the wonderful experiences people had this year .  So I thought today I would share my 4 favorite memories of 2016 . First, I got to attend the 100th running of the Indy 500 with my mom, and dad, and lots of our friends .  Now, I know that the Indy 500 is technically just 800 left turns, half of which you can't see because the track is so huge, but it is also the largest non-religious gathering of human beings on Earth .   And while I'm not usually a crowds person, it is truly wondrous to see so many different people come together .  And then, I left the Indy 500, drove to the airport, and boarded a plane to go to London, where I got to see Nerdfighteria-sponsored AFC Wimbledon play at Wembley for a spot in the 3rd tier of English football .  A game which they won, and then sleepless and delirious, I returned to Wimbledon's home stadium to party with my dad and friends and strangers and AFC Wimbledon players .   And it was just magical .  Now again, one could easily say,  " How can you get so excited about the 82nd best football team in England ?  "   And to those people I would say,  " At the moment, AFC Wimbledon are actually the 55th best football team in England .  " Second great memory of 2016: Sarah's cousin getting married in Portland, Oregon .  So when Sarah and I were in our twenties, we sometimes went to 7 or 8 weddings a year, and frankly, I came to dread them .  Because, you know, I dislike formal wear and banquet food and making small talk with strangers and overly long toasts, and most of all, dancing .   But now that we've reached an age where weddings are few and far between, I've really come around to them, and this one in particular had me both laughing and crying .  I'd known the groom since he was in high school, the couple were lovely and generous to each other and to their guests .  It was so fun to watch my kids watch a wedding because they were just like,  " Dad !  What is happening ?  "   And best of all, after the wedding we got to go to a Portland Timbers game . Third great memory of 2016: Meeting baby Orin in Montana .  Hank, I don't want to taunt you by bragging about experiences that you can't have, but there is nothing like the pride and happiness of seeing your baby brother be such a committed and loving father .  Hank, in your life you've been good at many things, but when I was visiting with you and Katherine and Orin in Montana, I thought  " He's found the thing that he's best at "  . Okay, enough sentimentality .  So far, all my favorite memories of 2016 involve leaving Indianapolis, and that's not a good sign .   And while I do dearly love our airport, named best airport in America four years running, I think my favorite memory of this year was being home .  In both 2014 and 2015, I spent more than 100 days away from home .  This year, I was home 9 nights out of 10 .  That meant more time for writing, and more time with my family .   And while I think quality time with your kids is incredibly important, there's also something to be said for quantity time .   And this was an awesome year to be a dad .  Henry learned to ride a bike, Alice learned her ABCs, they both learned every single word to Moana .   And I was home for most of it, which was the best thing to happen to me this year .  Other than AFC Wimbledon's promotion . Nerdfighters, if you'd like to share your best of 2016, please do so in comments, or make a video and link to it in comments .  Hank, when you see me next it will be 2017, meaning that the Vlogbrothers channel will be celebrating it's 10th anniversary .  Thank you for doing this with me for a decade .  What a long, strange trip it has been, I see you on Tuesday .  Friday .  Dangit !  So bad at days !  When are you gonna learn that, Green ?  When are you gonna get your days down ?    I've reached that age where my son has suddenly surpassed me in ability to tell what day of the week it is .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  Happy 2017 ! Today's video is like Voldemort's soul, it comes to you in eight parts, one of which is inconveniently located inside our protagonist . Part one: my snot .  Hank, there is so much snot inside of my body right now, so I apologize if I sound sick .  It, it's because I am sick . Part two: speaking of my health, 100 Days has begun .  My best Chris and I are trying to have a healthy midlife crisis, so over the next 100 days, we're gonna learn a lot about health and fitness .   And over at youtube . com/100days, you can see me do this .   And also this sweet move .   And also quite a lot of this .  Mostly that, really .  Doing partner abs always reminds me that my stomach was made for resting a laptop upon .   But my life is changing pretty dramatically during these 100 days .  You can also follow along with us, if you are so inclined .   And if you are at NerdCon: Nerdfighteria next month in Boston, you can do a live workout with Chris, and me, and our trainer, Laura . Part three: Ten year anniversary .  Hank, ten years and one day ago, I uploaded my first ever video to YouTube .  In honor of that anniversary, here's a terrible old school Vlogbrothers jump cut .  If I ever found out I only had one day to live, I want to be a day full of 2007 Vlogbrothers jump cuts .  Anyway that first video began:Pbbbbbt .  I'm not going to be good at this . I wasn't good at it of course, and in many ways I'm still not, but I feel so lucky to be at it ten years later, and I just want to say thank you to everyone who's been part of the last decade with us . Part four: So a while back, we asked a Montana-based artist named Claire Emery to make some limited-edition woodblock-prints to celebrate Vlogbrother's tenth anniversary .  Claire is just an amazing artist and she created three prints to celebrate a decade of Nerdfighteria, each of them is available for pre-order now at dftba . com in black and white or handcolored .  We're not getting a royalty or anything on this, we just love these prints and wanna celebrate this aniversary .  So, I hope you like them .  Also, Michael Aranda made a beautiful video about Claire and her work, which you can watch over at Hankschannel, link in the dooblydoo . Part five: speaking of celebrating, throughout 2017, Hank and I are going back to watch every single Vlogbrothers video for a new project called This Date in Vlogbrother's History .  For instance, on January 3rd, 2007, Hank referenced for the first time that people were saying we looked like The Proclaimers .   And on January 3rd, 2011, I made one of my most viewed videos ever .  Which I'm sure had nothing to do with the thumbnail .  You can watch the videos and read our reflections on them, over at the community tab at youtube . com/vlogbrothers/community .  Or you can get notifications by making sure you're subscribed, there is a little button directly beneath the video, and then clicking the bell to get notifications on . Part six: Hank, as you may have heard, Nerdfighteria sponsors a third-tier English soccer team called AFC Wimbledon, and this Saturday at 10AM Eastern Time here in the U . S . , AFC Wimbledon will play in the third round of the FA Cup against Sutton United, a game that would be televised on proper American cable television .  Specifically, the channel Fox Sports One .  Wimbeldon players wear DFTBA on the back of their shorts, and you can see those shorts live, in high definition, this Saturday .  A group of Colorado nerdfighters will be watching the game at the Three Lions Pub in Denver, and there may alse be other places to watch the game live with fellow Nerdfighters .  I've started a Reddit thread on the topic, link in the dooblydoo . Part seven: punishments .  Hank, in your final video of 2016, you went over four minutes in a non-educational video, which means for the first time in several years, we've got a Vlogbrothers punishment coming !  Your punishment will take place, live on stage, at NerdCon: Nerdfighteria .  I'm pretty excited about this .  Nerdfighters, if you have suggestions for Hank's punishment, please leave them in comments . Part eight: a moment of sentimentality .  Hank, getting to make stuff with you and Nerdfighteria over the last ten years and three days, has been the great professional privilege of my life .  When we started this project, we weren't patricularly close .  Like, I left for boarding school when you were eleven .  So, I never really knew you as anything other than a kid .  I mean, before Vlogbrothers, we talked on the phone, maybe once a year ?  Now it's least twice a week .  These past ten years, Nerdfighteria and its projects have brought so much joy and fulfillment to my life, but the best of it for me has been getting closer to you and being part of the awesome that you bring into the world . Thank you .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday ! So last week, the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that in the US in December, the unemployment rate was 4 . 7% .  Close to the lowest it's been in nine years and fairly close to lowest it's been since the early 1970s, but you may also heard that the real unemployment rate in the US was 6% or 9 . 2% or 20% or even 38% .   And to me, this seems like, one example among many, of how in our current political discourse, different people are reaching vastly different conclusions because they're all looking at different sets of data .   And until we can agree on what the facts are, we can't meaningfully discuss what they mean .  Let's start with that 38% number .  This refer to the labor force participation rate, which is a measure of how many Americans over the age 18   are either working or actively looking for work .  Now, as you can see, this rate has declined quite a bit over the last 20 years, from over 67% to under 63%, but by the far the biggest reason for this decline is that Americans are getting older, which means that a higher percentage of them have retired .   But even if you look at the labor force participation rate of people between the ages of 25 and 54, that rate has also declined, about 1 . 5% since the great recession and about 3 . 5% since its height in the late 1990s .  What's the deal there ?  Well, the two biggest factors seemed to be more people choosing to be full-time parents and more students in professional and graduate schools .  According to the most recent data, 90 of 95 million Americans not in the workforce say they 'do not want a job now' .   But the remaining 5 million people, of course, is a lot of people .  like, it's 3% of the total US labor force .   And some portion of the declining labor participation is probably due to lack of job opportunities: people might have retired earlier than they otherwise would've because they lost a job or they might be in graduate school, but they could be tempted in the workforce for the right opportunity, etc . Now, smart people disagree about how much of the declining labor participation is attributable to the economy .   But, on its own, that statistic does not tell much about unemployment .  For one thing labor force participation rate will continue to decline as the population continues to age, whether the economy is good or bad .   But also, if you're gonna claim that the real US unemployment is 38%, that means back in 1967 it was 41% and that the lowest the US unemployment has ever been is 33% in 2000 . So let's move on to actual measures of unemployment .  Every month, the US Census Bureau surveys 60,000 households to find out how many people are out of work, and then on the first Friday of every month, they release six different unemployment rates, because nothing is ever easy, but for our purposed only four of them matter .  First, you have U-3, which is the official unemployment number .  It includes all adult civilians who are without work and have looked for a job within the last four weeks, that's the number that is currently 4 . 7% .  Then you have U-4, which adds in so-called discouraged workers, people who are without jobs but have stopped looking for work because they don't believe there are any jobs they could get .  Adding them raises the current unemployment rate to 5% .   And then U-5 adds in so-called marginally attached workers, who are people who wanna be in the workforce but haven't recently sought jobs because they're taking family responsibilities or taking classes, and they bring the unemployment rate up to 5 . 7%   And then lastly, U-6 includes people who work part time but wanna be working full time .  Including them brings the current unemployment rate up to 9 . 2% . So which of these is the real unemployment rate ?  Well, it depends on what you're trying to measure .  The U-3 number is useful for one thing because it's closely aligned with international standards, which allows us to compare our unemployment rate to that of other countries .  Like, in Brazil, a similar measure has the unemployment rate at 12%, in Germany it's 4 . 1%, in Spain it's 19% .   But the U-6 number is also useful because it helps us to understand how much so-called 'slack' there is in the labor market, that is how much room there is for job growth . As you can see U-3 and U-6 basically track together, but there are slight differences, like the distances between U-3 and U-6 is currently slightly higher than it was before the 2009 recession, indicating that there may be more room for job growth than the U-3 number would have us conclude .  The most important thing, though, is that when talking about our unemployment rate, we can't compare oranges with grapefruits, and unfortunately that's happening a lot in our political conversations right now .  You might hear for instance that, at the height of the Recession, unemployment was 10% and now it's only down to 9 . 2%, but that's mixing unemployment measures . If the current unemployment rate is 9 . 2%, it was 17% at the height of the Recession, and if it was 10% at the Recession's peak, it is currently 4 . 7% .  By either measure, unemployment in the United States is lower than the average has been since World War Two, but it's still somewhat higher than full employment .  But, of course, that's only part of the picture, because people don't just need jobs, they need good ones .  On that front, recovery from the Recession is probably still unfinished .  Median household incomes are likely still lower than they were in 2007, although we don't have the final data for 2016 yet .  So, in summary, no matter how you measure it, US employment is low, but could be lower, and median household income is rising, but not yet to all-time highs .   And if we could agree on these facts, maybe we could move forward with the discussion about how to continue or even expand this economic recovery . Okay, not American Nerdfighter, I'm sorry that this was such an American video, but we're having just a smidge of a political discourse crisis over here .  Let me know in comments, what non-American topics I could cover next week to make it up to you . Okay Hank, I'm off to go see the movie Hidden Figures for a second time, because I liked it that much .  Maybe also let me know in the comments what your favorite Oscar-contending movies are, my favorites are Hidden Figures and Moonlight . Hank, thanks for keeping me employed all these years .  I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . So, this is the Pantheon .  The world's oldest building still in use, depending on your definition of 'building' and 'use' . It was finished around 126 CE during the reign of Roman emperor, Hadrian, seen here noseless in his most famous statue .  Which, by the way, was most recently discovered to be a forgery .  Hadrian's head was put on someone else's body 1700 years after his death .  Right, so the Pantheon was originally a temple to the Roman Gods, but it became a Christian church in 609 and it is still one .  For almost 1900 years, people have been coming to this place for worship .  So long that the gods have changed .  When the Pantheon was built, there was no English language, Romans didn't eat pizza, because tomato wouldn't come to Italy for another 1500 years .  If you wanted to get from Rome to Florence, and you were phenomenally wealthy, it would take four days by carriage at a cost of 350 denarii, approximately equal to a year's wages for a laborer .  Today, it takes about three hours by car, or three and a half, if you want to avoid the tolls .  In short, human lives were very different 1900 years ago .   And yet .  .  . This is the Lascaux cave in Southwestern France, which was discovered or rediscovered in 1940 by four teenagers and a dog named Robot .  The cave is famous for its nearly 2000 prehistoric wall paintings, including extraordinary depictions of animals, some of them now extinct, as well as this famous person with a bird-head .  Now, there's a lot we don't know about these paintings at Lascaux .  We don't know, for instance, how many generations painted there, but we do know from carbon dating and other dating methods that the paintings are mostly are between fifteen and twenty thousand years old .  350 kilometers away, a group of cave experts found another cave full of extraordinary paintings in 1996 .  This one came to be known as the Chauvet cave .   And in many ways, these paintings are even more sophisticated than the ones from Lascaux: there's more actions in them, like animals locking horns or drawn so as to intimate motion, and Chauvet paintings are arguably more detailed, but the Chauvet paintings are much older than the Lascaux paintings like much, much older .  Most of these painting were made between thirty seven and thirty three thousand years ago, although few were created during a second period of activity, thirty one to twenty eight thousand years ago .  That means the historical distance between Chauvet and Lascaux is approximately equal to the historical distance between Lascaux and now .   And even more remarkably, the paintings in the Chauvet cave were created across thousands of years, meaning that that cave was almost certainly in use by the same community for the longer than the Pantheon has been in use by us .  We like to think that history moves in a line, from naive art to sophisticated art, from short disease-ridden human lives to long and healthy ones, from poverty to abundance, from ignorance to knowledge .   But the idea that history means progress is very new, like almost all of the 250,000 year history of humans looks almost like a sine curve, than an ascending line .   And whatever progress we made toward justice or equality or shared prosperity is fragile, because it's new .  It's easy to forget that because the new is all around us, from broadband internet to Italian tomatoes to even the Pantheon, but all of that occurred in the last 1% of human history, which is maybe a reminder that lot of what we think of as inevitable or natural about human-ness really isn't .  Inequality of wealth isn't natural, nor is anthropogenic climate change or political polarization .  On the other hand, literacy also isn't natural, nor is freedom of speech, nor is it natural for Rome to be three hours from Florence .  This condition results from choices we made collectively, every day we're choosing what to value, what to worship, what to paint .   And through the haze of history, the humans of the future will know us by the choices that we're making together right now .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                  
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday !  So over at youtube . com/100days I'm in the midst of a health and fitness journey with my best friend, Chris .  Hold up, did I just say I'm on a journey ?  Hank, I'm becoming a self-help book . Speaking of which, I have long been an avowed enemy of the motivational quote .  You know like,  " Tough times don't last, but tough people do .  "  Or,  " Nothing worth having comes easy .  "  Or,  " What's the point of being alive if you don't at least try to do something remarkable ?  "  Which is actually a quote from my book An Abundance of Katherines, so my bad . My first problem with motivational quotes is that, like, they aren't true .  Like, tough people don't last; like all people, they die .   And many things that are worth having come easily, like bananas, for instance, are available at almost any supermarket for, like, fifty cents .  Also, hopefully the characters in An Abundance of Katherines spend that novel learning that an unremarkable life can be fulfilling and meaningful . Then there's that old Walt Disney line,  " If you can dream it, you can do it "  which has appeared on more posters than Justin Bieber's face despite being manifestly untrue .  Like, have you ever even had a dream ?  I once had a dream I was a tuatara .   And if the mountain we must conquer exists within ourselves then why did you climb all those actual, physical mountains, Sir Edmund Hillary ?  You should have been at home, meditating, conquering the mountain within yourself .  Also, just for the record, neither Walt Disney nor Sir Edmund Hillary ever said those quotes that are so often attributed to them . The motivational quote plague is perhaps most notable at workout facilities, like the gym where Chris and I usually work out has this Steve Prefontaine quote about how giving less than your best is sacrificing your gift .   And a boxing gym we visited had a hand-written sign reading  " You don't have to get ready if you stay ready "  .  I find these little aphorisms, not just annoying, but kind of insulting, and yet .  .  .  Not to brag or anything, but I ran 9 miles yesterday, and around mile 4, I found myself thinking  " You don't have to get ready, if you stay ready "  .  God help me, Hank .  I've become a fan of motivational quotes .  I'm on a fricking journey . I kind of feel like my whole adult life has been a series of circumstances that force me to reckon seriously with stuff I once easily dismissed .  Like I remember living in New York in 2007 and railing against the sheeple buying houses in the Midwest .   And now I'm a homeowner in Indianapolis and I quite like it .  I used to think that bestselling books were, by definition, crap, and then I found myself quickly backtracking when I unexpectedly became the author of one .  I've ridiculed parents for focusing on their kids instead of the world's kids, only to become a parent and understand that impulse, and I've said that popular music was dead only to really like Beyonce's album, Lemonade .  But even now I still haven't learned that when I want to roll my eyes, I should probably be alive to the possibility that the object of my disdain is more complex than I'm imagining .   And so now, yes, I've become a person who revels in cliched, usually miss-attributed quotes in order to motivate me toward physical fitness .  This is a surprise on several levels, not least because I have long dismissed physical fitness as a waste of energy, when all that really matters about humans is their minds .   But these past few weeks have already taught me that there is no hard line between the body and the brain, that running can be good for my writing, and writing good for my running .  I kind of thought I'd have to abandon, like, my real work for 100 Days while I focused on my physical health, but, instead, I'm finding myself enjoying writing more than I have in years .   And even though I'm spending more time working out, weirdly, I find that I have more time for writing, too .  These days, I'm at the keyboard pretty much every day .  Because, you know, you don't have to get ready, if you stay ready .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday . End screen .  Four things .  I will be at VidCon Europe in Amsterdam in April with many other YouTubers .  Hope to see you there .  Check out 100 Days .  I also wanted to let you know that these 10th anniversary Vlogbrothers woodcuts are available for a couple more weeks at dftba . com, and, lastly, Rosianna's self-care bunny wants you to know that you are enough .  
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday . So I am very nearly 40, which as it happens, means that I am almost exactly twice as old as the median Vlogbrothers viewer .   When I was their age, half my life ago, I was a sophomore in college, I had just fallen in love for the first time, I was taking my first creative writing class, I looked approximately like this .  Of course my life was very different then, and the world was very different then, too, specifically it was worse .   That year, 1998, more than 10 million children under the age of five died . Over 50% of kids in low income countries weren't vaccinated, and 30% of all humans lived in absolute poverty .  Meaning that they survived on less than two dollars a day in current US dollars .  Today, 80% of kids in low income countries are vaccinated . Fewer than 10% of people on earth live in absolute poverty .   And this year, fewer than 6 million children will die .  Child mortality isn't just falling, the rate at which it's falling has been accelerating for two decades .  And after very slow progress for most of the 20th century, and for that matter all of human history, the cycle of poverty is suddenly breaking worldwide .  How did that happen, and what's left to be done ?  Well every year , Melinda and Bill Gates release their annual letter on those topics .  And for me it's kind of required reading every year, Because like the news can tell me what happened yesterday, but reading the gates letter allows me to zoom out a little and think about what's happening in the larger human story over time .  This year's letter is written to warren Buffett, another billionaire who's pledged almost almost all of his wealth to charity .   But it begins by pointing out that most funding for global health initiatives comes not from private individuals, but from governments . Here in the US about $32 billion went to foreign aid last year, Which is less than 1% of the federal government's budget .   But it still goes a long way .   And I know foreign aid has a reputation for not working but in fact it is extremely effective .  And I also strongly believe it's in our national interest .  Like poverty and poor health are associated with an increased risk for a conflict .   And also, microbes are not aware of national borders so better healthcare systems around the world mean less disease risk for all of us . OK, so as brilliantly explained in this video by In a Nutshell, we know that when child mortality goes down, families choose to have fewer children, which ultimately slows population growth .  It also means that kids on average will be healthier and more likely to go to school, and that their parents will be more likely to work because they won't have to be home with sick kids .  So reducing child mortality has huge benefits not just for individual families, but for entire social orders . As Bill says,  " saving children's lives is the best deal in philanthropy .  "  For one thing it's often quite inexpensive like many vaccines cost less than a dollar .   And vaccination is the number one reason child mortality has declined so much .   But still most children who die, do so only because they were born poor . That is not acceptable, and also we don't have to accept it .  We need to continue to close the gap between rich and poor countries when it comes to vaccination .  We need to improve health care for  infants .  45% of child mortality now occurs within the first month of life .  And we need to improve nutrition not just preventing starvation but ensuring that kids get all the nutrients they need .  That's a really big deal .  As Bill puts it,  " malnutrition destroys the human potential on the planet .  "  Because malnutrition can stunt not just physical growth, but also cognitive development, which just compounds the disadvantages that the poorest kids in the world face . This year's Gates letter also focuses on access to contraception .  Melinda writes,  " when women are able to time and space their pregnancies, they are more likely to advance their education and earn an income - and they're more likely to have healthy children .  "     And this is another place where what's good for individual families can also have really positive impacts on the community .  As Melinda points out,  " no country in the last 50 years has emerged from poverty without expanding access to contraceptives .  "  Hank, 20 years from now when today's median Vlogbrothers viewer is as old as I am now, it is genuinely possible that both absolute poverty, and child mortality will be rare everywhere on earth .  And I really believe that as a species, our success is best judged not by how the richest, or the best connected among us live .   But how the poor and the oppressed and the vulnerable live .   And I know it may feel like absolute poverty and child mortality rates are beyond our control, that  only the Gates', and the Buffets of the world can move the needle .  But in reality, it's up to all of us like when my kids get through a diarrheal illness with just Pedialyte and  Advil, it's up to me to remember and to prioritize the kids who die of the very same disease for want of re-hydration solution .  When we vote, when we talk to our friends about what matters to us, when we choose who's lives to pay attention to, we are deciding what our future will look like .  Hank, you've told me once that bad news usually happens all at once, while good news usually happens slowly and that makes it hard to pay attention to the good news .  But we still need the good news, maybe now more than ever .  So I really hope you'll check out the Gates letter in the Doobley doo below .  It's honest and level headed while still being optimistic, which is what I want to be when I grow up .   Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday ! It's Question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real Nerdfighters .  Let's get right to it !  " Do rich people have better Wi-Fi, or does Beyonce have to unplug the router sometimes ?  " Interesting fact: money can buy you almost anything, but it cannot buy you freedom from Comcast .  I'm pretty sure Beyonce has to reset her router just like the rest of us .  " How do I cope with the fact that there's no real meaning in life ?  " Oh man, I wish we could just go back to Beyonce questions .  So, listen, maybe meaning in life is constructed by us rather than derived from some objective truth, but that doesn't make meaning not real . Okay, so, you should always be suspicious of people who use metaphor to approach questions of meaning, however, imagine you're walking through a forest one night, and you come to a clearing and you find an eternal fire .  It's the perfectly sized fire and it doesn't need anything from you .  You don't have to put wood in it, it just burns and burns .   And you can spend your whole life seeing by its light, and being warmed by it, and so on . I think that's an awesome fire and if you find one you should be grateful, but imagine that you don't .  Imagine on your travels you never come across an eternal fire .  In that case, you have to build a fire and then find fuel to keep it going and sometimes it'll go out and you've got to start a new fire . Now, in some ways that's worse, but in some ways it's better because unlike the eternal fire, you understand how and why it works .  Point being, I would argue the light and heat from both fires are equally real .  Alright, that's all I got, no more questions about the meaning of life .  " Will you come to my wedding in September ?  My partner is obsessed with you and your wife .  " So, when Sarah and I got married we invited a somewhat famous person, who shall remain nameless, to our wedding .  He wasn't like a close friend, but he was someone who'd had an important role in getting us together .   And we thought it would be nice to invite him . So anyway, a couple weeks after the invitations come out, I get an email and it begins,  " Of course I cannot come to your wedding "  What do you mean  " of course ?  !  "  Is there a less necessary  " of course "  in the history of the English language ?  Would not  " I cannot come to your wedding "  have sufficed ? Anyway, he did buy us some wine glasses off our registry, which we still have, so thank you .  Right, but to your question, of course we cannot come to your wedding .  I'm kidding !  If it's in Indianapolis and there's an open bar, we'll be there .  " Favorite fictional depiction of time travel ?  " I like your implication that there are non fictional depictions of time-travel .  Probably, for me, Back to the Future, which has had kind of an outsized influence on my life .  " Is there going to be another season of Crash Course: Literature ?  " Yeah, probably .  What should we read ?   " I want to know everything about your new book .  "  But sadly, I don't know everything about it, because it's not finished, yet .   " Are you tired of people asking about your new book ?  " No, it's nice that people care, I just wish I had something more to tell them .  " What's your favorite river ?  " Definitely the White River, here in Indianapolis .  Even though Indianapolis is a city of a million people, the river is really beautiful and mostly deserted .  Like, you can kayak for hours without seeing anyone .   And the reason it's so beautiful is that it's basically a heavily polluted open sewer, and by basically I mean it is those things .  So it seems natural and pristine precisely because it is so unnatural and polluted .  It's just a very metaphorically resonant river .  " Favorite online server to store and organize information ?  " Nice try, hackers, but not this time .  " Do you like the number 53 ?  " Mm .  .  It's probably in my top half of 2-digit numbers .  43 is the best, though .  " Do you ever go by any nicknames ?  " Well, some of my friends from high school still call me Kuffs, because I once said that Christian Slater never made a bad movie .  " Do thoughts mean consciousness ?  " So, like, I spend probably the majority of my free time thinking about whether I am actually comprised of my thoughts, and to what extent the thoughts that are called mine actually belong to me, but I haven't come to any meaningful conclusions .  " Why've people become so obsessed with being right, rather than developing richer ways of thinking ?  " I don't know .  I'm trying to practice saying  " I don't know "  more, because, it seems to me, a really underutilized phrase . Hey, what's in the boxes behind you ?  " I don't know .  " When's your new book going to come out ?  " I don't know .  " If your greatest hope and your greatest fear challenged each other to a duel, who would win ?  " So, who would win a duel between absolute oblivion and a cure for malaria ?  I don't know ! Hank, this  " I don't know "  stuff is amazing .  The life-changing magic of  " I don't know "  ! Hank, I will see you on Friday .  Actually, I don't know for sure that I'm going to see you on Friday, but I hope I do .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . So I am a total sucker for airport reunions and because I've spent about a third of my adult life in airports I've seen a lot of them over the years .  But a couple weeks ago I got to see .  .  .  Well OK .  This is Saw Kyar Aye, waiting at the airport for his wife and son .  He was born in Burma, also known as Myanmar, and as a young man he was taken from his community, by the army, and forced to work on road construction .  The conditions for forced labour in Burma are horrible and it remains a problem despite the steps towards democracy the country has made in the past decade .  Beatings by soldiers are common and deserters have been executed .  Persecution of religious and ethnic minorities is also common and Saw Kyar Aye is both, he is a Christian and a member of the ethnic Chin minority .  Saw Kyar Aye escaped his forced labour crew in 2008 and eventually found his way to Malaysia, where he registered as a refugee with UNHCR .   But because he couldn't legally work in Malaysia he had to live on the margins of the social order .  Then again, he couldn't risk returning home because now he would be considered a deserter . He did consider himself lucky, though, to find unofficial work in a restaurant, where he met Thet Thet, a fellow Burmese refugee who was a waitress in that restaurant .  They fell in love and got married, but their refugee cases were being processed separately .  The bureaucracy faced by refugees is often quite dizzying .  There are so many layers of vetting and checking and only a tiny fraction of people are ever approved for resettlement . Also, critically, if you do get approved for resettlement, that news can come at any time and when it does you have one chance to take it or leave it .  So in 2012, four years after escaping to Malaysia, Saw Kyar Aye received permission to come to the United States, but because Thet Thet's application was being vetted separately, she did not .  Together they decided that Aye should go, partly because they'd been told that it was easy to reunite spouses once one was in the United States . So in December of 2012, with Thet Thet 8 months pregnant, Saw Kyar Aye left Malaysia for Indianapolis .  There are more than 13,000 Burmese refugees now living here in Indianapolis .  Saw Kyar Aye joined that community, but he also joined the broader Indianapolis community .  He found a church and friends and a job, he works in a Clif Bar factory, but the very first thing he did upon arriving was file for family reunification . Quick pause to note that refugee resettlement has not increased US crime rates in Indianapolis or elsewhere .  In fact it is associated with community crime rates dropping .   And also there is little evidence that refugee resettlement negatively effects employment or wages, sources in the video info below . Right, so its the beginning of 2013 .  Thet Thet is in Malaysia caring for her baby son, Saw Kyar Min, working when she can .  The family seems certain to be reunited soon but delays keep happening .  Until finally in April of 2014 Saw Kyar Aye learns that his wife and son will be coming to the United States .  Except there is a clerical error .  It turns out that there are two Saw Kyar Ayes in a refugee data base and Thet Thet has been listed as being married to the other one so the trip is cancelled and the process starts again . At last in 2016, Thet Thet and Saw Kyar Min are again approved for resettlement .  Visas are issued, travel plans made, and then comes an executive order halting all refugee resettlement into the United States for at least 120 days .  Saw Kyar Aye said he started to wonder if he would ever get a chance to see his son .  He'd preparedeverything for the kid to start school in Indiana, but now they had to wait, again .  Would the refugee resettlement programme ever restart ?  If so would people already approved still be at the front of the line ? Or would it be 2014 all over again ?  But then, as suddenly as the executive order arrived, a court ruled much of it invalid and days later Thet Thet and Saw Kyar Min were on a plane, first to New York and then to Indianapolis .  Saw Kyar Aye and I have both worked with a local refugee resettlement organization called Exodus and through them I was invited to the airport for the reunion and walking in I was so nervous .  Would there be another executive order, a different court reaching a different ruling ?  No .  This time I got to witness the best airport reunion, as Saw Kyar Aye saw his wife for the first time in over 4 years and held his son for the first time ever . No one can seriously think that reuniting this family poses a threat to the strength or the prosperity of the United States .   But to be a refugee is to have much of your life defined by powers far beyond your control .  Yesterday a new blanket ban on refugee resettlement was announced for at least 120 days, meaning that many families who had been praying for, and told to expect, reunions like this one will now have to wait . Now we can have, and we need to have, a discussion about how many refugees should be resettled in the United States each year, but a blanket ban is a terrible way to start that conversation .  Instead I believe that conversation must start by seeing refugees as people, with individual stories who love their families and want to them safe . Hank, I'll see you on Friday . P . S .  Over at youtube . com/100days my best friend, Chris, and I are on a health and fitness journey and on day 100 we're going to run a 10K race .  You can sponsor us, all the proceeds will go to Exodus, the refugee resettlement organization here in Indianapolis, link in the dooblydoo below .  Thanks, bye !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . So I was talking to a friend at VidCon, actually I wasn't talking to him, I was scrolling through my Twitter feed trying to make sure that everyone was having a good time at VidCon, you know and looking to see if there were any problems, and my friend said  " You seem stressed "  and I said  " Twitter "  .   Which is both the name of a social network and my personal word for that kind of buzzing misery that the social internet lately fills me with .  I call this strange brew of outrage and worry and exhaustion and not being able to look away  " twittering " , but presumably you can get the same unpleasant, and yet still somehow desirable, feeling from other social media outlets .   And also possibly elsewhere, but I get it mostly from Twitter .   By the way I'm happy you don't get this feeling and that the internet brings you nothing but joy and fulfillment .   I think Twitter and Facebook and et .  cetera are useful and important, and in pockets quite beautiful, and obviously I've benefited from them a lot, but I'm just gonna level with you and acknowledge that the majority of time these days my general feeling when on the social internet is like  " Uuuggghh "  . Right so anyway, I explained this to my friend and he said  " You should make your phone into a dumb phone "  and I said  " What ?  "  and then he explained that among the may things you can do with a smartphone is turn it into a device that closely resembles a cellphone from 2005, except with a much better camera .   This had literally never occurred to me, and about a month later, after a particularly egregious episode of twittering, I did it .  My phone no longer has Twitter or Facebook or email or Reddit, I even broke my son's heart by deleting Pokemon GO .   I do still have an internet browser which allows me to fall down various rabbit holes if I'm highly motivated, but in general I just use my phone for calls and texting and pictures .   Well also I've got my Delta app so I can check into flights and Yelp and Google maps and of course the Chipotle app and this app that tells me whether there are soccer games on TV right now, it's not really that dumb of a phone .    But the point is I have no way of twittering .  Theres just one problem with my dumb phone, which is that it hasn't worked .  Like I suppose in the last seven months my background level of stress had decreased somewhat, but mostly I just spend more time with my computer .  This is partly because I feel some vague but nagging obligation to be informed about the events of the day .   Although in the end I'm not convinced that twittering actually makes me better informed .  Like I know quite a lot about Donald Trump's handshakes with foreign leaders, but I don't know much about South Korea's ousted president, or the ongoing corruption scandals in Brazil, or even the U . S .  federal reserve's monetary policy .   Plus I feel like when I'm inside the feed I kind of become a person I dislike .  Like I find myself skimming instead of engaging and valuing cleverness over compassion and also clicking on click bait, which just creates a world with more click bait .    And sometimes I'll be like,  " Sorry my actual real life family, but someone is wrong about something on the internet, and I need to explain to them exactly why they are wrong "  .   God help me, I've even re-tweeted fake news . Point being, it is time for a drastic intervention .   So in the last couple weeks I've decided to scale way back on the social internet, and put my self on an information diet .   Rather than trying to drink from the fire hose of Twitter, I'm spending and hour or two each morning reading these, mostly The Economist, The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, and my hometown Indianapolis Star . How do I explain newspapers and magazines to young people, basically it's like a very carefully curated internet that someone prints on paper and then mails to your house .   It's an extremely inefficient process, and too expensive, but I am desperate for a change . So is it working, well I'll echo many a click bait science headline and say that early results are positive but it's too soon to know for sure .   Nerdfighters, I'm curious if you're having similar problems with the social internet or if my experience is more of an outlier .   Let me know in the comments below .  On that subject I will say that YouTube still feels different to me from the rest of the internet .  In general I just find YouTube less stressful, but that might be because I get to live in this relatively friendly and peaceful corner of it .  So thank you for that . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank !  It's Tuesday .  So you know the Obamacare insurance exchanges that, depending on your political perspective, are either the cause of or the solution to so many of America's healthcare problems ?  Only about 6% of Americans actually get their insurance through those exchanges .  Now, that's obviously very important to those six percent of people, but it's by far the smallest slice of the American health insurance pie .   And I think the relentless focus on them in our political discourse speaks to a larger inability to have, for lack of a better phrase, a grown-up conversation about healthcare . Okay, so healthcare is very complicated, and I'm gonna paint this in the broadest possible strokes .  If you want far more information about health and healthcare please check out Healthcare Triage .   But let's start with what health insurance does .  Health insurance takes money from healthy people and uses it to buy care for sick people .  You can do this through private insurance, which pools people together and takes money from them in the form of monthly premiums, or you can do it through a public insurer, which pools people together and takes money from them in the form of taxes .  In the United States we have both .  Almost everyone over the age of 65 is in this publicly funded insurance pool called Medicare .  Many military veterans are in a similar pool run by the Veterans Administration .   And there's a third publicly funded pool that covers many low income and disabled Americans called Medicaid .   But just over half of Americans get their insurance through private insurers .  This includes the 6% of people who are covered through the Obamacare exchanges, but mostly people who get their insurance from their employers, because large companies are required to offer health insurance plans to their employees .  Then you have the 9% of Americans who don't have any health insurance at all .  That number has dropped a lot in the last five years but it's still higher than any other wealthy nation . So the current US healthcare system is widely considered to be, if I can use a technical term, bananas .  We spend so, so much on healthcare; about 18% of our total economic output goes to healthcare .  The average among other wealthy nations is closer to 12% .   And we also don't get particularly good healthcare outcomes, like we come up short in many, many metrics, including life expectancy, where we trail countries like Chile and Slovenia, both of which spend less than 10% of their GDP on healthcare and, for the record, both of which also have higher rates of tobacco usage .  Now you would think that with lots of private participation in health care markets cost would be driven down, right ?  Like, private companies can make refrigerators or cars much better than governments can make refrigerators or cars .   But healthcare is a weird market on a few levels .  First, there's the problem of inelastic demand .  Like, if I need a medicine to keep me alive, I can't effectively negotiate the price of that medication because, in the end, I'm gonna whatever it costs .   And there's the problem of competition being something of a illusion .  Like, for instance, if you're having a heart attack, it's generally not considered a good idea to call around to a bunch of area hospitals to find out who has the best deal on heart surgery this week .  There should be competition among private insurers, but plans are often extremely confusing .  Like, you might pay less upfront and think you are getting a good deal, only to find out later that what you need to be covered isn't covered .  Like it's hard to compare cellphone plans effectively, let alone health insurance plans that might or might not cover literally thousands of different procedures .  Plus, having your insurance status depend partly whether you work for a big company is a huge disincentive for innovation and entrepreneurship .  It tells people, don't start a new business, don't strike out on your own, because you won't be able to get affordable health insurance .  So, all in all, we ended up with a healthcare system where more tax dollars per person go to publicly funded healthcare than in most other countries and yet we don't have publicly funded healthcare for most people .   And most Americans agree on this, only about 32% of us think that our healthcare system is good or excellent .   And yet, around 70% of Americans think that their personal healthcare is good or excellent and therein lies the problem .  Most serious reform proposals would involve big changes for many people in that 70% .   And as the Republican party has lately learned, it's easy to talk about healthcare reform in the abstract, but when you put pen to paper, it gets complicated .  So all healthcare reform boils down to three factors: quality, cost, and access .  Obamacare sought to improve access .  It didn't do much to change quality or costs .   And to do that, it spent a huge amount of money, like a trillion dollars in the first decade .  Now, it increased some taxes and cut some spending so as to be deficit neutral, but it spent a lot of money to get a lot of people health insurance .  So today, fewer people are uninsured, but it cost a lot to get there, that was the trade-off . Republican plan sought to reduce government spending of healthcare, but that also comes with trade-offs .  In this case, it would have resulted in millions of people losing their insurance, which was a hard sell to moderate Republicans .  So the GOP bill offered tax credits to help people buy private insurance, but that meant more spending, which made it a hard sell to conservative Republicans .  Like the ACA itself, the GOP bill would not have done a lot to address the overall cost of healthcare in the United States or the fact that our quality of care isn't great .  Because to have those conversations we need to accept that, as Healthcare Triage always says, 'Tradeoffs are inevitable' .  Sidenote: I just realized that my collar is turned, so I fixed that .   But I bet it was annoying to lot of you, sorry .  Right, so the most commonly cited solution to the US healthcare problem is the single payer healthcare system or Medicare for All, as Bernie Sanders calls it .  In this proposal, all Americans would be able to get the kind of publicly funded insurance that seniors now get and studies have shown that this would lower overall US healthcare costs .  Although probably not to the rates seen in most European countries .  Still there would be less money spent on administration and advertising .   And also on care itself, because a bigger insurance pool can negotiate prices more aggressively and this would be, like, a huge insurance pool .   But there are trade-offs, like, it's accurate to say that Medicare for All would lower overall US healthcare cost, it's also accurate to say that it would cost hundreds of thousands of jobs .   And many of them would be good paying jobs, from medical device salespeople to insurance adjusters to marketing managers .   And with less money being spent per procedure, lots of other people would see their incomes go down, including many doctors and nurses .  Also it would be good to spend 12% of our GDP on healthcare instead of 18% if we could get some outcomes but there is a word for what happens when 6% of your total economy goes away overnight, recession .  Now the economy would recover and reallocate capital fairly quickly, but it wouldn't be painless .   It's also important to note that we currently have a single payer healthcare system in the United States, in Medicare, and it's not a bargain .  Compared to other single payer systems around the world, it's very expensive, because we resist the kind of government regulations and price controls that are ultimately necessary to rein in spending .  So a single payer system on its own, would not solve all of our problems and there would be trade-offs .  Alternateively, some on the Right have argued that to increase competition and let market forces work, it's necessary to dramatically scale back or even eliminate government funding for healthcare .   And that, too, might lower prices, but at the cost of many millions of people losing insurance .  Similarly, decreasing regulation might lower prices, but it increases the risks of being treated by an inadequately trained professional or taking an unsafe medication, trade-offs .  We could talk about over-regulation or tort reform or marketplaces or competition, but none of them would be a magic bullet .  Because there is no magical solution with our healthcare system, where everyone wins and no one loses .  Now, we can continue to make incremental changes, like the ACA or the alternatives to it, but as Doctor Carroll put it on twitter, 'however you want to reform healthcare, there will be trade-offs .  Those who promise you everything are lying' .  If we want a better healthcare system in the United States, we need to talk openly about those trade-offs .  Because when we allow ourselves to be pandered to, our elected leaders seems more than happy to oblige us . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                  
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  So remember Brotherhood 2 . 0 resident mathematician Daniel Biss ?  He was a friend of mine and a very successful math professor at the University of Chicago before deciding to leave that job and run for political office, whereupon he eventually became a very successful state senator . Yeah, so Daniel is now running for governor of Illinois, like, complete with fancy campaign ads and everything .   And I have to say this turn of events is a little surprising to me because Daniel is the smartest person I know and governor of Illinois seems like a terrible job .  For one thing, Illinois politics are so dysfunctional that the state regularly has no budget .   And for another, four of Illinois' past ten governors have been imprisoned for corruption, an incarceration rate at is y'know, somewhat higher than the ones seen among professors of mathematics . Anyway, what interests me most is that Daniel, deep down, wants to work in government to help people and because he believes in democracy .   And he's actually been very successful as a state senator .  He led the passage of legislation to increase retirement savings and a ban on so-called  " conversion therapy "  for LGBT people .   But to accomplish stuff, he's had to wade this vast, grid-locked swamp of US politics .   And also he's had to attend many, many meetings .  Hank, sometimes when we talk about politics or the news, people in comments will be like  " why don't you run for office ?  "   And the short answer is that being a politician means going to meetings all the time and I hate meetings with a white-hot passion .  Like, when I'm forced to attend a meeting, by far my most common contribution is to say  " So, are we done then ?  "  I usually start saying that like twelve seconds into a meeting and then repeat it mantra-like until finally I am released .  Slight tangent, the other day I was playing ping-pong with Stan and I was telling him how happy I am about the Crash Courses in computer science and world mythology and he was like  " Yeah, do you want to do some more Crash Course literature in the fall ?  "   And I was like,  " Maybe .  "   And he was like,  " We could read 1984, some other .  .  .  "   And I was like,  " Wait a second, Stan, did you just use the magic of ping-pong to trick me into a damn meeting ?  "  So, anyway, more Crash Course literature coming this fall .   But to return to the point, politicians have to attend so many meetings .  Like say you're running for governor here in my home state of Indiana, you have to have tons of meetings with rich people to ask them for money and then, every day you have to have meetings with strangers all around the state to hear their concerns .  Many of these people will disagree with your political position and will never vote for you, and yet you have to listen to them like a grown-up and resist the urge to cover your ears and say  " Nananananananana .  "   And then you have to shake hands with these strangers, even though human hands are notoriously filthy and handshakes always remind you of that story about someone coming up to James Joyce and saying,  " Can I kiss the hand that wrote Ulysses ?  "  and Joyce saying,  " No because it's done so many other things as well .  "  And then, if you're good enough at shaking hands, and meeting with rich people, and meeting at town halls, and meeting with other elected officials, etc .  literally ad nauseam, you get to be governor .  At which point you basically become a professional attender of meetings .  Like, Hank, do you know what the governor of Indiana is doing right now ?  He is attending a public meeting of the Indiana Economic Development Corporation .  I mean, if there's a Hell and I end up there, I will spend eternity thinking,  " Well, at least I'm not in a meeting of the Indiana Economic Development Corporation .  "  So yeah, my hatred of meetings among other things would make me a terrible elected official, but that doesn't mean that elected officials are terrible .  In fact, the only one I know is among the kindest, most thoughtful people I've ever met and no matter your political leanings, you'd be lucky to have him as your governor .  Now of course, too many politicians do embody our caricatures of them, but our system of governments depends on Daniel and the many, many people like him .  People who are passionate and honest public servants and are willing to attend many, many meetings so that I don't have to .  We desperately need those people in government so Daniel: thank you, good luck, I know you're running against a few billionaires but I believe in you .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .  End screen !  So you know Self-Care Bunny ?  Rosianna's Self-Care Bunny is now available in beautiful poster form at dftba . com .  Also a lot of you have been asking about the boxes in the background .  I don't know what's in them .   But in a completely unrelated story, as you might know there is a scavenger hunt happening .  There's a different riddle every week and it's a little bit complicated .  I'll explain more in the doobly-doo .   But for those of you that like riddles, this week's clue actually is Self-Care Bunny, well .  .  .  rearranged .   
Good morning Hank it's Tuesday So I've been thinking a lot about the world's largest ball of paint, which is located in the tiny town of Alexandria Indiana .  Side note, it can't possibly be a coincidence that so many of the world's largest balls are located in the United States .  Like the world's largest ball of popcorn is an Iowa, the world's largest ball of stamps is in Nebraska, there are several competing world's largest balls of twine from Kansas to Minnesota but it's the ball of paint that interests me most .  So back in 1977 this guy Mike Carmichael painted a baseball with his three-year-old son and then they kept painting it for like hundreds of coats and then they started to invite neighbors and friends over to paint the ball .  Eventually strangers showed up and Mike would invite them to add layers of paint and now 40 years later there are more than 25,000 layers of paint on this baseball, it weighs two and a half tons .  It has its own little house, and every year more than a thousand strangers show up to add layers of paint to it, which by the way is free, Mike even provides the paint .  Anyway I think the world's largest ball of paint has something to tell us about the creation of art .  Like usually we imagine art as a story of individual geniuses .  Right you know Shakespeare, Leonardo da Vinci, or whomever uses like their innate brilliance to expand the human landscape .  Now sometimes we acknowledge that circumstances play a role in the emergence of great art .  Like for instance for Mark Twain to become Mark Twain he had to grow up on the river that separated America from itself, during the war that separated America from itself .   But mostly we think the work is done not by the times but by these heroic individuals who like push us forward and lift us up .  Now to be clear I do believe in genius from Mark Twain, to Jane Austen, to Toni Morrison there are some artists who are just uncommonly great .   But I don't think genius is a simple trait like having brown eyes .  I think it's more of a continuum like having empathy, and also I think the worship of individual genius in art and elsewhere is ultimately misguided .  Like Thomas Edison didn't invent the light bulb, it was being invented all around him by lots of people and he added innovations to it, and Isaac Newton didn't discover gravity he pushed our awareness of it to new places . I think lots of us, and I include myself in this by the way, worry that, whatever our work is, it won't matter because it won't be remembered or because it won't rise to the level of genius .   But maybe that makes individuals too important .  Maybe in the end art and life are more like the world's largest ball of paint .  You carefully choose your colors and then you add your layer as best you can and then eventually it gets painted over .  It gets painted again and again until there is no visible remnant of your layer of paint and really no one knows about it except for you and maybe a few people close to you to whom you told the story .   But that doesn't mean your layer of paint is irrelevant because it permanently, if slightly, changed the larger sphere .  Right like the world's largest ball of paint looks nothing like a painted baseball and you're part of the reason .  Whether you made a YouTube video that only a few people saw, or wrote a short story that only a few people read you've still played a role in shaping this many splendored ball of paint we're all living with .  So you add your coat of paint or hopefully several coats and hope that you've made the world more beautiful .   And yes eventually you will be painted over but you still matter . Hank thanks so much to you and all the VidCon staff and volunteers for an amazing weekend in Amsterdam at VidCon Europe .  I'm going to enjoy a couple days of vacation and then get back to painting .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday                
Good Morning Hank, it's Tuesday, I'm gonna try and do this without a script .  So, the other day, I was talking to a YouTube friend of mine who also has OCD,  and they were like,  " How do you seem so put together ?  "  Which is weird, because at the exact same moment I was thinking the exact same thought about them .  Anyway the answer, of course, for both of us is editing .  Like, you hear me say,  " Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday; I'm gonna try to do this without a script .  "   But, like, what you don't hear is, this:  " good morning, good morning, good morning Hank, it's Tuesday-so the other .  .  .    Good, good morning Hank, it's Tuesday-so the other day; good, good morning Hank it's Tuesday-so the other day I was talking to a YouTube friend of .  .  .   Good morning .  Good morning; good morning .    Good morning .  Good morning Hank, it's Tuesd-so the other day I was talking to a YouTube friend of   Good morning .  Good morning .  "  And that goes on for about two minutes and forty seconds .  So, like, this is real; I'm in my real basement right now and I'm going to really edit this video and upload it .   But it's also inevitably a construction - like I'm picking this frame-by the way, why are there so many new boxes ?  ?   And if we moved the frame just a little bit, you would see that, like, most of the basement is toys .   It's almost impossible to remember on like a second by second basis that when you watch a YouTube video or you look at people's social media feeds, you're seeing a curated version of those people .  We talk a lot in the YouTube age about authenticity and over the last decade I have tried to be authentic, but in telling the truth, you choose among many true stories which true story to tell, right ?  Like, let me tell you two stories, both of which are true .    Last week I went to VidCon Europe and Amsterdam and it was awesome and amazing and I had such a good time .  .  .  true .    Also true, I was infuriated with myself that I wasn't able to do a signing because of these problems I have in my brain .  In On Photography, Susan Sontag writes about the Farm Security Adminstration's photo project in the late 1930s .  She says the photographers would take dozens of frontal pictures of one of their sharecropper subjects until satisfied that they had gotten just the right look on film - the precise expression on the subject's face that supported their own notions about poverty, light, dignity, texture, exploitation, and geometry .  Making videos, even ones that don't feature your face, is often a kind of self portraiture, as is your Twitter or your Facebook; it's you, but it's also framed .   And images are just so incredibly compelling, like, we've all had the experience of reading a novel and imagining the characters in our own minds, and then seeing a movie adaptation and having the images we imagine to be replaced by the actors ?  But an image is just that: it is not the thing itself .  .  .   And this is my life, but it's not all of my life .   And if I can remember that about myself, maybe I can understand it about other people .  By the way, over at the 100Days channel, I made a video talking about my OCD in much more detail; if that's something that would interest you, link in the doobly-doo below .   And remember, the next time you see an Instagram photo that you're super jealous of, somebody framed that shot .  As, indeed, we are all framing our lives .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                  
For the love of God, what, are they breeding ?  Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  So I'm currently training for a half marathon and a couple days ago, I ran twelve miles in a row without stopping .  I'm not gonna lie, I'm extremely pleased with myself, but the point here is that when I am running, I only have one pace, which is the fastest I can go sustainably .  Like if I were running from a fast zombie, I could run faster than my running pace, but only for a few hundred yards and then I would stop, realize that my zombie apocalypse strategy is always to run face first into the horde of zombies so that I don't have to be, like, the last person on Earth, and I would give up .  Which is not really relevant to the point here .  The point here is that my running pace used to be about ten minutes and five seconds per mile, now it's about 9:40 .  I guess I should define what a mile is for people who live outside the United States .  So in distance terms, uh, I believe one mile is equal to 22 kilowatts .  Eventually I am going to actually tell the story .  So I was running and I wasn't feeling awesome, and somebody ran past me on the trail, and they gave me a thumbs up .   And I was like, oh God, I hate strangers interacting with me, and there's something vaguely condescending about a really fit runner giving a schmo like me a thumbs up .  One of the main reasons I like running is that I'm by myself, and I don't have to interact with people .   But after I got the thumbs up, a super weird thing happened, which is that I started to be able to run faster .  You can actually see this happen on my running app, you can see the mile where I received the thumbs up .  I receive a thumbs up and then something physiological happened to me that allowed me to run faster .   And also just run more happily, like suddenly I started noticing the trees and thinking pfft, it's a beautiful day out here !  What a planet Earth is !  Earth really is, by far, the most underrated planet .  So anyway, I was running along and after a wild post-thumbs up, I started to feel kind of tired again .   And then I noticed that someone was running toward me on the trail, and I thought, do I do it ?  Do I dare disturb the universe ?   And then as they got close, mostly just to find out if it would work, I went with the thumb up, and even though I did not get thumbed back, I felt the same surge of energy and happiness .   And I started running faster, so the next person that came by, I was like   and it continued to work !  Now of course, part of me, was like,  " You have to stop this .  This is humiliating .  You can't throw out thumbs ups everywhere you go, you'll become known as the 'thumbs up guy' "   But then another part of me was like,  " I just ran the fastest mile of my entire life .  You get a thumbs up !  You get a thumbs up !  Everybody gets thumbs ups !  "  This one landed off-screen, but it's still there ! It kept working .  I have no physiological explanation for this, except that it works .  It should tire me out, thumbs-ing up while I'm running, but it doesn't .  It just makes me feel great !  I absolutely floated through that run, I mean until about mile 10, then I started to feel terrible .  So friends, if you see me on the trails, or you see me at a race, don't say anything .  Just shoot me a thumbs up . I absolutely guarantee you that I will return the favor .  Okay Hank, I have to go for my last training run now .  I will see you on friday .                  
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . So what if I told you that for Americans a single data point can affect your life expectancy more than whether you smoke, more than if you get an annual physical, or whether you exercise regularly .  That data point is your zip code, the 5 digit number the U . S .  Postal service uses to deliver your mail .  In the U .  S . , your zip code can affect your life expectancy by 20 years, and according to some recent research, the gap between the healthiest communities and the sickest ones is getting bigger . So I live in the city of Indianapolis, and in my zip code, the life expectancy is around 80, which is slightly higher than the U . S .  average, but if you live 3 miles north of my house, the life expectancy rises to 83 . 7 and if you live 3 miles south it falls to 69 . 4 . Now, maybe that doesn't seem like a big deal to you, but just to put it in some context, on average, non-smokers in the US live about 10 years longer than smokers .   People who exercise regularly live about 4 . 5 years longer than those who don't, and whether you live three miles north or south of my house affects your life expectancy by 14 years .   Wait, slight tangent, am I gonna spend all of those 4 . 5 years exercising .   I have to do some math .   Okay, so assuming 2 . 5 hours of moderate intensity exercise per week beginning at the age of 16, you're gonna spend about 1 of your extra years exercising .   Then you're gonna spend another 1 . 5 years sleeping .   You basically get 2 extra years, except, of course, that's not how life expectancy works . If you, a particular individual, exercise, it doesn't mean that your particular life will be increased by 4 . 5 extra years or even 4 . 5 extra hours, it just means that on average, that's what happens .   Similarly, living in a particular zip code doesn't mean a particular fate for individuals but on average, geography has a huge impact on American health and longevity .   So what's causing that profound life expectancy gap ?   Well, as usual, it's complicated .   Like, the eastern Kentucky communities where life expectancy is under 70 have higher rates of tobacco usage than the central Colorado communities were life expectancy is over 85, but eastern Kentucky is also poorer and has fewer doctors .   Communities with low life expectancy tend to have less access to healthy food and more uninsured people .   People in those communities are also more likely to have certain chronic health problems like diabetes and hypertension, whereas the people in the healthiest communities tend to be, you know, rich and have excellent access to healthcare, and the zip codes with the highest life expectancy also tend to be in places where there's lots of physical activity, like ski resorts in Colorado or wealthy beach towns in California .   Now, I know to many of us, this is not surprising .   Like, we take it for granted that rich people will have dramatically longer and healthier lives than poor people, but increasing inequality of life expectancy within countries is not actually the norm .   In fact, while life expectancy variability has been rising within the US steadily since 1980, in most other rich countries, it's been declining .   Canada, for instance, has seen a significant decline which is one of the main reasons why Canada's overall life expectancy is higher than ours, even though the richest 20% of Americans live longer on average than the richest 20% of Canadians . Side note: lots of people take issue with life expectancy as a health metric, especially when comparing one country to another, and with some good reasons .    But the data we're discussing here is mostly exempt from those critiques, much more info and sources in the doobly-doo below . Right, so this growing discrepancy in life expectancy is not normal and it is not natural .   We don't have to accept that life span will vary dramatically within a country based on where you live, but right now in the United States, that problem is getting worse, not better .    That seems to me deeply wrong .   I mean, our Declaration of Independence famously names three inalienable rights that Americans should enjoy, and before liberty and the pursuit of happiness, there is life .   Hank, I'll see you on Friday . Actually, no, I will see you tomorrow for a surprise bonus Vlogbrothers video, and then I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .   So our Dad is a documentary filmmaker and when we were growing up, he worked on movies about everything from water in Florida to education in Alaska, and I guess there's a case to be made that we followed in his footsteps by creating nonfiction video, except I don't really think of like, this a documentary .   This is more, you know, like, very short podcasts featuring facial expressions .   Which is a genre of nonfiction video that is far less expensive and time-consuming than documentaries, and also requires less talent for visual storytelling, which is great, because even after more than 10 years, I'm still pretty bad at editing video .  But one thing I did inherit from Dad is a really deep love for documentary films .   Like, Hank, as you know, my dream job has always been--you know what, I'm about to date myself, but there you used to be this widely adopted technology called cable television .   Basically, you would pay a monthly fee in exchange for access to lots of video content, so it was sort of like Netflix except for some reason, you still had to watch advertisements ?   It was a weird time .    But anyway, there were these cable stations that just showed old movies all day, like, one of them was called Turner Classic Movies .    And before the movie started, there would always be this person who would introduce the movie to you and talk about some historical context and who the stars were .   Now, it occurs to me in retrospect that the introducer probably existed mostly to make the movie longer, like, if you could stretch a 90 minute movie into a 120 minutes of content, then you could add eight minutes of advertising, but when I was a kid, that was my dream job, to be an introducer, but not of regular movies, of documentaries . These days, documentaries are a lot easier to discover than they were when I was a kid .   Netflix, for instance, has an excellent and extensive library, but still many of my favorite documentaries aren't on Netflix .   Like I'm thinking of the Seven Up series, where a filmmaker has checked in every seven years with a group of people since they were kids in the 1960s, or Herb & Dorothy, a movie about a postal worker and a librarian living in New York City who became two of the world's leading art collectors or the classic Complaints of a Dutiful Daughter, a gut-wrenching and sometimes hilarious movie about a woman whose mother has Alzheimer's, or Slavery by Another Name, a movie about the failures of reconstruction and the post-Civil War United States .   There are so many great documentaries and so few of them ever find a broad audience .  But as a kid, my favorite genre of documentary was the nature documentary, where you could see animals in the wild, like, fighting to survive .   I love nature docs because they felt like a glimpse into a world without us .   I mean, they almost never include humans in the frame, and there's something magical about that .    But, of course, in real life, humans can't be separated from nature .   I mean, we're currently nature's most important species and the choices we're making affect every other species on Earth, and that's what I love so much about the movie Kedi and why I wanted us to help in its distribution . Kedi uses all the conventions of the nature documentary .   You get the beautiful cinematography, the fight scenes, the plucky underdog struggling to survive, the parents caring for babies, but it doesn't exclude humans from the story .   Instead, we see the connecting points between a city and its people and its cats .   It is a nature documentary that acknowledges that humans are part of nature and it shows that life for cats is sometimes tender and sometimes cold and always unpredictable, as it is for humans . Now, I know that Kedi is currently only available via purchase or YouTube Red and that makes it inaccessible to a lot of you .   One of the big challenges of documentaries is that it's really hard to fund them on advertising revenue alone, which is why so few of them are available on free streaming services, at least legally .    But regardless, if you do have a chance to see it someday, I really hope you do .   It's a wonderful movie .   While I'm fulfilling my dream of being an introducer, two other recommendations .   If you live in the United States, PBS has some excellent documentaries that are actually available for free .   Also, wherever you live, there is a free and ongoing documentary project that you might enjoy called The Road to Nerdfighteria, about how different people found this little corner of the internet and what it means to them .   They're still accepting submissions and it's a really wonderful series, links in the Doobly-Doo below .   Hank, I will see you on Friday . Endscreen, Hank, I actually won't see you on Friday, that was misleading and I apologize .   I'm going to be taking like a week or possibly two weeks away from the internet to focus on some writing things, but there will be a video next Tuesday, it's just that I recorded it in advance .   Okay, check out Kedi and The Road to Nerdfighteria, bye .                   
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday, but this video was filmed in the past .  I mean, I guess that's always true, but it's more true than usual this time .  I'm taking a week or two away from the internet to work, so this video was actually filmed nine days ago .  Has anything interesting happened in the last nine days ?  Has a shocking scandal gripped the nation ?  Probably .  It seems like shocking scandals grip the nation every week and horrify and/or thrill us so much that we think  " Now this is a properly shocking scandal "  .   And it is, until the next week when there is a new shocking scandal .  As Dorothy Parker said a long, long time ago,  " What fresh hell is this ?  "  But let us not talk of hells and freshness, let's answer real questions from real Nerdfighters, because it's Question Tuesday . What's in the boxes ? Okay, absolutely true story, I recently opened one of the boxes, and I was stunned to find what's inside, in fact, I'll just show you .  So, we have here a box, I'm just gonna open it .   And as you'll see, what's inside of this box is another box . Do caterpillars know they'll turn into butterflies or while they're building the cocoon are they just like,  " What the heck am I doing ?  " Well, we know that butterflies seem to be able to remember smells from when they were caterpillars, although admittedly, that's not quite the same thing as self-awareness, but then again, do humans know what they're doing as they mature or are they just like,  " What the heck am I doing ?  " How do you cope with uncertainty ? Quite poorly .  I desperately want to be able to close the loop on my thoughts, like, I really wanna be able to convince myself that something, really anything, is absolutely certain .  On the other hand, I would argue that uncertainty is maybe a little underappreciated in contemporary discourse .  Like, it sometimes feels as if you're supposed to begin every conversation not only with a position, but with absolute certainty that your position is correct, and I personally find it difficult to even be certain about the proposition that I'm like an actual human being, let alone what the top marginal income tax rate should be in the United States . What's your favorite word right now ? Non-sensorial . What are you looking forward to most about VidCon ? I really love the annual Nerdfighter meetup, because we get to talk about future plans for Crash Course and other stuff . How's life post-100 Days ? Good, I just finished my first half-marathon in a time of two hours and seven minutes, meaning that if I can just reduce my time by like an hour, I'll be a world-class runner . I wanna listen to The Mountain Goats, but where should I start ? Their new album just came out, it's called Goths and it's one of my favorites .  It really took me back into my past with an intensity I haven't felt in a long time .  That said, I always recommend that you start with the album All Hail West Texas . My brother's expecting a baby soon .  How can I prepare to be a great aunt ? Well, you're not actually gonna be a great-aunt, you're just gonna be a regular aunt, until like, your brother's kid has a baby of its own, then you'll be a great .  .  .  No, wait .  You meant like how can I prepare to be an excellent aunt ?  Don't worry about it, you're gonna be great .  Well, you'll be regular, but you know what I mean . What's your favorite pasta shape ? The bow-tie one . Favorite regular shape ? Spiral . Favorite painting ? Probably this one by Raymond Pettibon . Favorite superhero ? Batman .  No, I'm just kidding .  Batman isn't a superhero, he's a rich person .  My favorite comic book superhero at the moment is probably Ms .  Marvel . Favorite dog breed ? Mutts, although I'm also partial to what Alice calls  " Willie-dogs "  . How is Willie ? Um, unfortunately, not great .  Willie has cancer .  It's a very slow growing kind of cancer, but it is cancer .  He's a great dog and he's much loved and we're hopeful he can have a good dog life for quite a while longer, so I wanted to let you know that's going on, but we're hopeful, because he does have a relatively good prognosis .  Let's move on to happier news . What's going on with Russia and Trump ? I said happier news ! How did AFC Wimbledon manage not to score a single goal in their final six games ? HAPPIER NEWS ! Ashley Ford asks,  " I got engaged last night, and I'm wondering what's your best advice for a long and happy marriage ?  " There we go, some proper happy news, congratulations !  The world goes on !  People fall in love, hope that thing with feathers, refuses to be shushed !  As to your question, I posed it to Sarah and she reminded me of this Philip Larkin poem that ends  " We should be careful of each other, we should be kind while there is still time .  " Hank, let us be careful of each other and kind .  I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .   So I only have one picture of myself from the age of 23 .   This is the only photographic evidence I have of the year I spent in Chicago in an intense and loving but doomed relationship, the year I started and re-started the book that became Looking for Alaska, and also the year when, to borrow a line from Emily Dickinson, a plank in reason broke and I dropped down and down .   You know what, I'm assigning feelings to that picture that aren't really in it, because I was quite happy when that photograph was taken, but anyway, I was thinking about it recently because for the past decade or so, my like has been, you know, significantly better photographed .   Like, I have hundreds of pictures of myself at 39 and between Sarah and me, we've taken over 1,000 pictures of our kids this year .   Which is great, but I feel like we citizens of the internet are in general better at creating stuff than we are at preserving, curating, and archiving it .   So I wonder how many of our pictures will still be around in 15 years . Like, it's often posited that when archaeologists of the distant future look at our period of human history, they'll be like, abundance increased dramatically in the 19th and 20th centuries, and then people started building fewer amazing churches and instead they began to worship screens, and since they'll have no idea what was inside of those screens and the data will be corroded, the people of the future will know about Wikipedia only because of like, the printed books that mentioned it .   Which is an interesting idea, but I have a couple problems with it .   First, it assumes that in the distant future, there will be people .   Secondly, it ignores the many archivists who are working very hard to ensure that some slice of digital life is preserved for future historians .   In fact, that's why I started thinking about this in the first place .   An academic library recently got in touch with us about preserving some stuff from Brotherhood 2 . 0 and Nerdfighteria .   Now, of course, it would be nice to have more than one picture of myself from when I was 23, but we don't wanna archive everything forever, right ?   I mean, for one thing, there is no forever, but also like, I'm grateful that I have one picture of my great-grandmother, I'm not sure I'd need 17,000 of them .   Also, if we start to feel like life isn't really real unless or if it's photographed, we risk undervaluing all the really important parts of life that aren't very photogenic .   You know, like, grief .    But just to be clear, I am not one of those old people who thinks it's bad news that young people are taking so many pictures .   These days, photographs aren't just a way of remembering, they're a way of having a conversation, with yourself and others .   My concern is only that in constantly creating new things, we risk forgetting about the old things that might someday be useful to us .   Like, there were once more photos of me at 23 .   For instance, there were some on Friendster, a now defunct social networking site, but those pictures died with Friendster . Now Facebook and Instagram will likely be around for decades, if not centuries, and lots of us are backing up our poems and artwork and photographs to the cloud, but when I get to the internet archive and go back even a few years to see what Nerdfighteria used to look like, there are already holes .   I can see what the Vlogbrothers channel looked like at the end of 2007, that we'd made 237 videos and had 9,000 subscribers, or I can see what the page looked like in July of 2009 when we had 90,000 subscribers, but a lot is already gone .   The comment that started the evil baby orphanage is gone .   Lots of the early nerdfighter artwork is gone .   Sites are shuttered .   Links are dead .   Now, I don't want Nerdfighteria to be a backwards facing community, and I don't labor under the delusion that our little corner of the internet will be significant to scholars, but it's significant to me, and since that library e-mailed, I've been thinking about what to archive and how to archive it, and so I thought I would ask you, whether you've been around for a long time or you're new in town, when you think of Vlogbrothers and Nerdfighteria, what do you think of ?   What, if anything, should be archived, and do you have copies of it, because I might not .   Also, a little piece of advice, if you're 23 or even if you're not, take a bunch of pictures of yourself this year .   Save 'em to the cloud, but then also maybe print some of them out, just in case the physical things end up being the ones that last .   Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
You know what, I'm not even gonna comment on that .   So as listeners to Dear Hank and John will already know, I am a huge fan of the movie Rushmore, and within that movie, there is a play set during the Vietnam War in which a character is asked, how long you been in country, and the soldier replies, I ain't even here, sergeant, I'm in Cheyenne, Wyoming .   Anyway, Cheyenne, Wyoming has since become my personal shorthand for the place I visit when I am deeply immersed in a project .   Like, when we first started making Vlogbrothers back in 2007, I spent several months in Cheyenne, Wyoming because I wasn't really wherever I physically was, I was always thinking about what my next video was gonna be about or how to grow our audience or about how cool YouTube was .    But mostly I visit Cheyenne, Wyoming when I'm writing .   Now, in a lot of ways, being in Cheyenne is super fun, like, one of my primary complaints about human life is that we spend the entire enterprise stuck inside of one particular slowly decaying body, and living inside a made up world has always allowed me to feel kind of free from that, like, free from the twin prisons of my consciousness and my body, but also, for much of my life, Cheyenne has been kind of an escape, like, all those years when I didn't have many real friends and I felt intensely lonely, I could always go to Cheyenne, where people would like me because, you know, I'd made them up . That said, when I'm in Cheyenne, I'm also kind of, you know, like, not here, which means that sometimes I'll be at dinner with my kids and not answer when I'm asked a question .   I neglect daily responsibilities, I forget to get haircuts .   I've been in Cheyenne, Wyoming for quite a while now, and I expect to be here a while longer, and it can be really frustrating because I actually like my real life and I like making videos every Tuesday and I'm not all the way here and I worry I should be, because the other thing about going to Cheyenne is that you aren't necessarily going to come home with anything .   Like, I spent about a year in Cheyenne finishing The Fault in Our Stars but I also spent several months there a few years ago only to realize that the book I'd worked so hard on wasn't very good and wasn't gonna be published .   For me at least, I can't know until after I immerse myself in the work, which is frustrating and scary, but--you know what, actually, no but .   It's just frustrating and scary at the moment . Hank, in your video last week, you talked about how to be productive, and I thought you gave very helpful and astute advice, but I think creative productivity is somewhat different, because for one thing, you have to spend time in ways that markets and our culture don't really recognize as productive, like, reading or pacing or staring out the window, and then, once you get deep enough into the work, you have to make space in your life and ask the people around you to make space in their lives for you to go to Cheyenne, Wyoming .  Now, that doesn't mean working all day, every day .   I wrote my first two books at night after work and wrote them quicker than I have any book since, but it does mean that a certain percentage of your intellectual and emotional self will be absent for a while .   Then, you make what you can of your time in Cheyenne, and then maybe most importantly, you come home to your body, to the sensate world, to the real people you really love .   Unless you live in the actual Cheyenne, Wyoming, in which case the whole metaphor sort of falls apart .   Anyway, Hank, that's as close as I can get at the moment to advice on how to make stuff, and I also wanna say I'm sorry if I haven't been around enough lately .   I will come home at some point .   In the meantime, I miss you .   Hank, I'll see you on Friday . Endscreen .   Hi, two things .   First, over on my Facebook page, I made a video sponsored by Google about being internet kind in which I talk about my early life online way back in the 1990s .   There's a link in the doobly-doo below, and secondly, if you're gonna be at VidCon in Anaheim in a couple weeks, there is a Nerdfighter gathering Thursday morning at 9:30 where Hank and I are gonna get to announce some exciting new Complexly projects .   Very excited for it, hope to see you there, thanks, bye !                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Thursday .  Special surprise bonus video . So I have written a book .  That feels good to say .  Also a little terrifying .  It's called Turtles All The Way Down, it comes out on October 10th and it is available for pre-order now, link in the doobly-doo below .  My previous book, The Fault In Our Stars, came out more than five and a half years ago so this book has definitely been a long and winding road, but I am so excited to share it with you . I don't want to say too much about the plot of the book but it's a story about a young woman who's trying to solve a mystery while also trying to live with mental illness .   And in that sense while it's definitely a made-up story, it's also kind of a personal one because, as most of you know, I have a mental illness that, at times, has taken over my life . So OK, I think that's all the relevant information for right now: title, publication date, available for pre-order, one sentence of extremely vague introduction .  I'm so happy to be finished with a book that I'm proud of .  I really hope you like it . Also, I just want to say a quick word of thanks .  A lot of people have been really patient with me and kind over the last five and a half years, especially my family, so thank you .  I have often worried that I would never publish another book and without their support I wouldn't be . Now I know many of you will have questions, please leave them in comments below and I will try to answer some in next Tuesday's video which, by the way, is going to be an unboxing video because I hear those are popular on YouTube . Hank, I will see you tomorrow .  That's another thing I haven't gotten to say for a while !                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .   It's time for an unboxing video .   So as previously noted, if you open up any of these boxes, you'll find, you know, yet another box .    But it is not boxes all the way down, because if you open up this box, what you'll find is paper .   Lots of paper .   Like, that particular box contains 2,000 sheets and I am signing those sheets of paper one at a time over and over again and I've been doing it off and on for about six months, actually .   It's been a little bit hard to keep this all a secret, but when I announced last week that I finally have a new book coming out, Turtles All the Way Down, coming out October 10th, lots of people were like, are you gonna sign all the pre-orders ?   Will all the pre-orders be signed ?   No .   I wanna be very clear about that .   In fact, there is a website, willallpreordersofturtlesallthewaydownbesigned . com .   No .   So the only way to sign all the pre-orders for a book is to sign the entire first printing .   For The Fault in Our Stars, that was 150,000 copies .   Some of you might remember this, which Sarah made for me in 2011 to help me, you know, chart my path to 150,000 signatures because I did sign almost all of the pre-orders for that book .  But Turtles All The Way Down is gonna have a first printing of like, 1 . 5 million copies and it's just not possible to sign that many books .   I looked into it .   Maybe somebody could do it, but not me .   However, I am going to sign 200,000 copies of the book, hopefully slightly more, but at least 200,000 .   Again, just to emphasize, this does not mean that all pre-orders of Turtles All The Way Down will be signed, because they won't .   For one thing, this is only going to work in the US and Canada, I'm really sorry if you live outside the US and Canada, but on the upside, by not being American, you probably get universal healthcare so maybe that's even worth more than an autograph ? Okay, so in the book world there are these things called ISBN numbers .   Every book has one .   They used to be ten digit numbers, now they're 13 digits, and for many years, a large percentage of my job was typing ISBN numbers into a database, so as it happens, I know a lot about ISBN numbers .   For instance, each publisher has its own particular ISBN prefix, 0-06 is Harper Collins, 0-316 is Little Brown, 1-224 is the University of Chicago Press, I could go on, but you'd get bored .   In fact, my first thought when I found out Looking for Alaska was gonna be published by Dutton was  " I'm gonna be 0-525- "  !   Incidentally, I'm very proud, all these years later, to still be published by Dutton and still be a 0-525- but I am on a tangent . Right .   So .   Turtles All The Way Down has two ISBN numbers and one of those ISBN numbers is for signed books .   Everyone's gonna have some signed copies .   Your local bookstore will have some, Target will have some, Amazon will have some, et cetera, and you will have the highest chance, although still not a guarantee, of getting a signed book if you order that ISBN number .   There are many links in the Doobly-Doo to buy the book with that ISBN number from all over the place .    But let me just quickly say that if I were you, I would order the book from my local bookstore . So yeah, that is the ISBN for the signed edition .   It doesn't cost any more than the regular edition, it's just more likely to have a signature .   Also, Sarah took this from 2011 and made me this for 2017 .   It's a thermometer resting on the back of a turtle that is itself resting on the back of another turtle presumably ad infinitum .   As you can see here, since January, working when I had extra time, I have reached 80,000 books, and then I have like about two months of just zrbajarb yeah, there . By the way, if you're wondering what 80,000 sheets of paper looks like, this is 38, fidget spinner for scale, and there's another 42,000 .   Most of the pages are just signed, but about three percent have a DFTBA on them, then there's also a bunch of them that have Yetis drawn by Sarah .   There's also a few that Alice has circled in hot pink, and there are several hundred that Henry has drawn Pokeballs on .   It's kind of a family affair, this signing thing So Hank, that's the news .   I have a new book coming out .   It's called Turtles All The Way Down .   I am so excited and also so relieved .   I am going to sign 200,000 copies, or hopefully slightly more, and if you live in the US or Canada, you can pre-order a signed copy at your local bookstore or via the links in the Doobly-Doo .   Hank, I gotta get to signing, I'll see you on Friday . P . S .  One more thing, I need your help deciding which Sharpie colors to use .   There is a survey in the Doobly-Doo .   Thank you, bye .                   
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .   So I'm on vacation on the shores of Lake Michigan and last night, twilight looked like this .   I learned yesterday that the first half hour or so after the sun sets is called civil twilight, because it's considered by some governments to be legally still daytime .   Like, centuries ago, nighttime burglary was often considered a more serious crime than daytime burglary and criminals would sometimes seek lesser sentences by claiming that they'd robbed a house not at night, but during civil twilight .   I just love that phrase 'civil twilight' .   The adjective 'civil' makes almost every noun better, except war .   Anyway, I've been thinking a lot about sunsets this week, because the ones here in Michigan are so ostentatiously beautiful .   Like, back home in Indiana, the light often gets grey and then greyer until it's dark, but here in Michigan, at least at this time of year, these sunsets are mundane, they're ordinary .   Which also makes them cliche, of course, I mean, the beauty of sunsets and the civil twilights that follow is by now so cliche that it's difficult to say anything interesting about them .   Like, e . e .  cummings' famous sunset poem which goes,  " Who are you, little I, five or six years old, peering from some high window at the gold of November sunset and feeling that if day has to become night, this is a beautiful way .  "   It's a good poem, but it only works because cummings' situations the observation in childhood when one is presumably too innocent to have yet realized how lame it is to write about sunsets, and yet a good sunset is beautiful and better still, universally so, like our ancestors didn't eat like us or travel like us .   Their relationship to ideas as fundamental as light and time were vastly different from ours, but every human who has lived more than a few years on this planet has seen a beautiful sunset and paused to spend one of the last moments of day to be grateful for and overwhelmed by the light .  But even now, I'm swimming in sentimental waters .   How do you celebrate a sunset without being cheesy ?   Maybe state it in cold facts .   So here's what happens .   Before a beam of sunlight gets to your eyes, it has millions of interactions with molecules that cause the so-called scattering of light .   Different wavelengths are sent off in different directions when interacting with say, oxygen or nitrogen in the atmosphere, but at sunset, the light travels through the atmosphere longer before it reaches our eyes so that much of the blue and purple has been scattered away before it reaches us .   I think it's helpful to know how sunsets work and I've never bought the romantic notion that scientific understanding somehow robs the universe of its beauty, but it still doesn't communicate much about how I felt looking at this absolutely routine, totally extraordinaria  civil twilight .   How it felt to look at something that was as beautiful as it was normal and to be comforted both by the beauty and the normalcy .   So, anyway, I tried to photograph it, because, you know, that's what people do, but of course the camera couldn't capture how I felt in the space between yesterday and last night and apparently neither can my voiceover .   All I can say is that sometimes the world stops me cold and I feel my smallness and you'd think that would be sad but it isn't .   It only makes me grateful .   Toni Morrison once wrote that  " at some point in life, the world's beauty becomes enough .   you don't need to photograph, paint, or even remember it .   it is enough .  "  so I turned off my camera and it was .   It was enough . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  I'm still on vacation, but don't worry .  I brought 35,000 sheets of paper with me .   And as you can see here, I've signed very nearly 120,000 sheets . Today I thought I'd answer some real questions from real Nerdfighters about signing, beginning with  " are you LITERALLY signing 200,000 sheets of paper ?  "  Yes, so I sign all of these sheets and then I send them to Pennsylvania where they are bound one by one into copies of my new book, Turtles All the Way Down .   And because the book obviously has to be printed somewhat in advance of its publication on October 10th, I have to finish signing by, like, August 17th .  " Are you aware that your signature is currently worth -$4 on Amazon ?  "  Yeah, I actually think it's -$3 at the moment, but it's true that the signed edition is currently less expensive than the unsigned one .  I get the same royalty regardless and have no control over Amazon's discounting, but also Amazon might be on to something because once for like, a year after The Fault in Our Stars came out, unsigned copies were much rarer than signed ones .  " How many paper cuts have you gotten so far ?  "  Amazingly, none yet, but I spend a lot of time worrying about it .  " Why 200,000 ?  "  Uh, at the time, it seemed like enough, but not too much ?  " Why u do dis ?  "  To be honest I'm not totally sure, but I do have some theories .  One reason is that it's always struck me as unfair that people who don't live near major metropolitan areas or for whatever reason can't go to author events don't get signed books unless they pay a surcharge, but there are also a lot of selfish reasons, one of which is that, you know, like for the last two thousand days or so, I've been trying to write this book, and on most of those days, I didn't know if what I was writing would ever make it into the book .  A lot of those days I couldn't even tell if the work I was doing was getting me closer to a book I was proud of or further away from it .  With this, I know that I'm doing something people will like and each time I do it, I get a little closer to being done .  Writing is not like that for me .   " does your hand hurt ?  "  No, I got some incredibly effective physical therapy when I was doing this for the Fault in Our Stars because I have ulnar nerve entrapment and, since then, I've been able to just sign all day .  " Why don't you hire someone to make a machine that perfectly mimics your signature ?  "  You know, there are some jobs that robots that robots just can't do and one of them is monotonously create the same scratch on a page 200,000 times .   " How consistent does your signature tend to be ?  "  So I think it varies wildly, but Sarah thinks I just spend way too much time looking at my signature .  I've grabbed three here that I think are very different to give you a sense of the variation .  " How many papers can you sign in an hour ?  "  It takes about two hours to do a thousand, so, in total, this project is gonna take around four hundred hours .  " Would you please put that pen to work on another book instead of a zillion fairly anonymous tokens ?  "  No, see, the problem is the pen does not want to work on another book .  " What kind of pen are you using ?  "  I use Sharpies and lots of them .  I'm in something of a blue period, by the way .   " Are you sponsored by Sharpie ?  "  No, I wish .  I'm ready to sell out for some of that sweet, sweet Sharpie money, but, no, I buy my Sharpies .  " How do you decide what colors to sign in ?  "  Well, you're deciding the color break-down of the last hundred thousand thanks to your votes .  " Do you ever write or draw random things in some of the books along with your signature ?  "  Yes, for reasons that will become obvious to readers of the book, I sometimes make a spiral .  " What good media have you been enjoying while signing ?  "  I'm mostly listening to podcasts, including all of these, but I also listened to Pride and Prejudice on audiobook and it is still great .  " What's your rhythm ?  Pull, place, sign, pass ?  "  I guess my rhythm looks approximately like this and, once that done pile gets big enough, I stack 'em and start again .  " Can you draw turtles all the way down on mine ?  "  No, but I did draw signatures all the way down on this one .  " What are some interesting thoughts you've had during this process ?  "  I would actually say the chief pleasure of it is that I don't have many thoughts at all .  " When you first started signing the books, did you think it was fun ?  "  I honestly still it's fun .  " Where can I buy the book ?  "  Somebody knows how to ensure their question gets answered .  The signed edition has its own ISBN .  There are links in the doobly-doo below, but also pretty much wherever books are sold .  And lastly,  " Can I Hanklerfish some ?  "  Hank, I'll be putting this box in the mail shortly . I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  Signing update: I am just past 135,000 signatures . Okay, so, uh, ten years ago today was one of the most important days of my life .  Hank, a long time ago, you introduced me to the idea that bad news usually happens all at once, whereas good news usually happens slowly .  Like, part of the reason we don't hear about the continuing decline in absolute poverty or childhood mortality or deaths by violence is that they aren't events, right ?  They're processes that occur over decades or centuries .   But from earthquakes to shootings to car accidents, bad news is usually an event .  Like we all know the experience of going about our daily lives and then, boom, out of nowhere, life-changingly bad news . However, that noted, sometimes bad news happens slowly .  Climate change comes to mind .   And good news happens all at once, like, boom, out of nowhere, incredibly happy news .  Maybe you get a surprise A on a test or an unexpected gift from a friend .  Or maybe it's something bigger .  And when I think about this in my own life there are five memories of shocked joy that come to mind . The first two are the births of my children, which I suppose is not, like, technically surprising because I did know it was coming .   But both times the feeling was a complete suprise, this weird overwhelmedness with a mix of joy, and I guess, like awe .  The third was in 2003 .  Sarah and I had been friends for a couple years at that point, and we were hanging out one afternoon at her apartment and she mentioned that she and her boyfriend had broken up a couple of months earlier, and I was like,  " Wait .  What ?  " Fourth, it's January of 2006 .  Sarah and I are living in New York .  We're engaged and we're walking down the street on our way to go register for wedding presents .   And my parents happen to be in town so they're with us and my dad happened to have a camera .   And you have to remember this is before everyone has, like, a camera inside their phone, right ?  So I get a phone call from a weird number and I answer it, and I learn that my first novel, Looking for Alaska, has just won the Michael L .  Prince Award, the biggest award in Young Adult books .   And my dad takes this picture of us as we're finding out .    And lastly, it's July of 2007 .  We've just moved from New York to Indianapolis for Sarah's job .   And we've just bought our first house, which is really exciting but also really scary, because suddenly I have a mortgage and a lawn to maintain and gutters to clean and there are boxes everywhere .   And also, I literally had no friends .  [SUPERIMPOSED: In Indianapolis)Work is going okay .  My second book didn't sell very well, but I am doing this fun year-long project with my brother called  " Brotherhood 2 . 0 "  where we make videos back-and-forth to each other every week day .  A few hundred people watch every day and it's a really creatively fulfilling project, but it hasn't even occurred to me to keep going after the end of 2007 .   And then, ten years ago today, Hank, you upload a song about how excited you are for the publication of the last Harry Potter book .  It's called  " Ackio "  --  " Assio ?  Ashio ?  "  --  " Oshkosh B-gosheo Deathly Hallows "  and it starts like this:HANK SINGING:I'm gettin' kind of tired of this pre-publication media blitz .  You got all of muggle-kind under your spell . Don't you know the whole world's already goneand reserved a copy at Amazon ? How many more books could you sell ? JOHN:When I first see that video I just think  " Wow .  "   And I am not alone .  Lots of people like the song .  It gets picked up on Harry Potter fan forums which leads to our project being discovered by a group of passionate people who know how to build Internet communities .   And a couple days later the song is featured on the front page of YouTube and we go from around 200 YouTube subscribers to over 5,000 .   And suddenly our year-long project starts to feel like maybe it could last longer than a year .   And here we are a decade later, so lucky to still be talking to each other and to still have people watching .  Hank, without  " Accio Deathly Hallows "  it's hard to know what our lives would look like .   But they would look different .  We wouldn't have met Esther or the people who power the Project for Awesome .  You probably wouldn't have gotten to sing in front of thousands of people .   And I highly doubt that I would be a position to sign 200,000 copies of my new book .  So, Hank, thank you, for making that song and for giving me one of my favorite memories .   And thanks to everyone who watched it then .   And also everyone who watches us now . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .  
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .   This video is about my mental health, but I want to say here at the outset that I am not a psychologist and that, in general, I think we should listen to experts when it comes to mental health and also when it comes to other things, but I can only speak to my personal experience . Okay, so it seems to me that the stuff happening way down inside of us is difficult to talk about, partly because those experiences aren't really accessible by the senses .   You can't usually see or hear psychic pain and it's difficult to describe without simile or metaphor, like, I might say that it feels like there's a void inside of me or like my insides are twisted or like my brain is on fire .   I can say what it's like more than I can say what it is .   So I have obsessive compulsive disorder, which is mostly seen in the popular imagination as being about, like, excessive hand washing or neatness or whatever, because those are things you can see, you know, they're not like the formless, insensate horrors of psychic pain .   They're behaviors that you can like, portray in a movie, but for me at least, there's a reason the obsessive comes before the compulsive in the name .   So I experience these obsessive thought spirals in which intrusive thoughts, that is, like, thoughts that I don't want to have that seem to come from outside of me sort of hijack my consciousness .   Now, everyone has known some version of not being able to choose their thoughts, like, after you lose someone, you may find yourself thinking about them all the time .   You may see a sunset and think about seeing a sunset with that person, or you open a car door and remember driving with them, etc, but for me, these obsessive thought spirals happen all the time and they can take over for days or weeks or months .   Like, I might worry out of nowhere that my food is contaminated or somehow poisoned and then somehow suddenly that will be the only thought I'm able to think, the thought I'm either thinking or distracting myself from all the time, and when that gets bad, I can lose all control over my thoughts for an extended period of time to the extent that I can't follow what's happening in a TV show or read a book .   This is exhausting, of course, but it's also kind of terrifying because one, I can't stop being scared of the thing I'm scared about and two, if I can't choose my thoughts, then I am at least, in part, made out of those thoughts, then am I actually the captain of this ship I call myself ?     And the more you think about that, at least for me, the more it becomes sort of the premise for a horror movie .   Right, so the compulsive behaviors I use to cope with these obsessive thought spirals, repeatedly checking my food for contamination, for instance, or spending hours Googling what will happen to me if I eat moldy bread, those are for me ways of trying to comfort and calm myself .   Like, I'm not checking over and over again to be eccentric or whatever, I'm doing it because it because I cannot stop obsessing over the fear that I might have eaten living mold and I will do whatever I can not to be strangled by that thought . Mental illness is highly stigmatized in our culture, but it is also sometimes romanticized .   We see TV shows where in order to catch a terrorist, a mentally ill person must go off their meds, or we see obsessive detectives whose obsessiveness allows them to crack cases that others couldn't .   That kind of thing might be true to some peoples' experiences, but it hasn't been true to mine, like, I don't feel like my mental illness has any superpower side effects .   In fact, when I'm stuck inside a thought spiral, I find it very difficult to observe, like, anything outside of myself .   I become a terrible detective .   So when I started the book that has become Turtles All The Way Down, I wanted to like, try to find form and expression for this way down non-sensorial experience of living inside of thought spirals .   The book is fictional, totally fictional, but it began for me with thinking about what it would be like to be this one particular 16 year old girl, Asa Holmes, who's trying to be a good daughter and a good friend and a good student and maybe even a good detective, while also living with terrifying thought spirals that she cannot see or hear but that are nonetheless very real .   So, Hank, that's a bit of an introduction to the story and how I came to write it . I also want to say to anyone out there concerned about their mental health, please please seek help .   I've put some resources in the doobly-doo below .   I know it can be difficult to get effective treatment but there is hope, even if your brain tells you there isn't .   The vast majority of mental illness is treatable and lots of people with chronic mental health problems have fulfilling and vibrant lives . Hank, DFTBA .   I will see you on Friday .                 
Gooood Morning Hank . It's Tuesday .  Today I want to talk about death and how to avoid it . Also, there will be a signing update at the end of this video, but first, DEATH .  So the other day I dropped my kids off at camp, and as I was helping them out of the car, one of them sneezed directly onto my hands .   And then, as I was driving home, I could literally feel like the gross, aerosolized, cold virus spit drying on my hands, so I opened up the centered console and started looking around for some Purell in there, and that was a tremendous and potentially fatal miscalculation . So I talk a lot about how human life is getting better, and in almost every way, it really is .  We are healthier, more prosperous, and less likely to die from violence than at any point in human history, but there are a few ways that human life is actually getting worse, like wealth inequality for instance has been growing; although, it's still low by historical standards .   And that's bad especially for the poor but also for the all social order because it inhibits overall economic growth and socially-economic mobility .  And then we have the so-called preventable death rate here in the United States .  These are deaths that could be prevented with existing technology by reducing medical errors or getting people to quit smoking, etc .  .  .  Between 2010 and 2014, overall preventable deaths in the US decreased, but preventable deaths by so-called unintentional injury increased by 23%, which is a lot . So, what's going on ?  Well, as you can see here, there are three big reasons .  First falls, which is going up mostly because the population of the United States is getting older, and older people are far more likely to die from falling .  And then there is poisoning, which almost entirely drug overdoses .  So back in 1992, Americans were more than three times as likely to be murdered than they were to die of drug overdoses, but today Americans are more than three times as likely to die of drug overdoses than they are to be murdered .  That's almost because homicide rates have fallen by almost 40% but mostly because drug overdoses are skyrocketing . Drug overdoses are now the leading cause of death for American under the age of 50 .  Now, the drug abuse crisis in the United States is very complex .  There is a great Healthcare Triage series about it that I will link to in the doobley-doo below, but what's clear is that what we are doing about the substance abuse crisis is woefully inadequate .  And I just want to take a quick moment here to say to anyone out there living with substance abuse,  " You are valuable and deserve to be loved and supported, and to be well, and there are lots of people who live wonderful lives in recovery .  I know there are not a lot of options for treatment, but I hope you will seek help today .  I've put some resources in the doobley-doo below . Okay, so lastly, we have motor-vehicle accidents, which brings me back to my Purell miscalculation .  the overall death rate from car accidents has fallen a lot since 1975 with improvements to car safety, but in 2015, it actually rose by 7% .  some of that is probably attributable to more miles being driven as the economy continued to improve, but most of it is because of distracted driving .  Too many of us are using our phones while we drive or playing PokA mon Go or reaching for Purell .  I didn't get in a car accident while trying to find that Purell just as most of the time people don't get in car accidents when they text while driving but I nonetheless increased dramatically increased my risk of dying and also my risk of killing someone else far more than whatever infinitesimal risk I have as a result of the cold virus on my hands . So, I'm making this video mostly as a reminder to myself .  When I am driving, the greatest threat to my health and well-being by far is not whatever text I just received or whatever spit is drying on my hands, it's inattentive driving .  Alright, sorry if that sounded like a long PSA, it's just there is so few things in life we can actually fix, and this is one of them . Signing update !  I have about 34,000 copies to go; that's about 68 hours of signing, which is- I think is doable .  Also, I am told that amazon will soon run out of their allotment of signed copies  " Turtles All the Way Down "  . Don't worry .  there will still be tones of signed copies at bookstores all over the US and Canada, and you can always stay up-to-date on how to get a probably signed copy at probablysignedturtles . com, but if you want to get one from amazon, now is probably the time .  Link's in the doobley-doo below .  Hank ! You will see me actually on Thursday because Esther Day .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday, August third, 2017 .  It's Esther Day !  So seven years ago today, our friend, Esther Earl, made a video where she said in part,  " I love my sisters .  I love my brothers .  I love my dad .  I love my mom .  I love my pets; they are included in the family category .  I love my friends .  My friends are amazing: the ones I've met online and the ones I still have IRL .  "  Esther died a few weeks later when she was just sixteen and every year we pause on August third, her birthday, to celebrate Esther Day, a celebration of love in all its many splendors and Esther wanted us to pay special attention to the kinds of non-romantic love that often go unacknowledged in our culture: love among family and friends . So, Hank, with that noted, I love you .  I so admire your hard work, your relentless pursuit of decreasing worldsuck, your love and kindness and patience as a son and father and husband and brother .  I think you're amazing and I love you and I will not say that again for a year .  In honor of Esther Day, I hope all of you will take a moment to tell people in your lives that you love them, even if it's hard to do, in fact, especially if it's hard to do . After Esther died her family created This Star Won't Go Out, a charity that has helped many many families of kids with cancer .   But, this year, This Star Won't Go Out is expanding its mission in a way Esther would have loved with something called Project Lovely .  That logo by the way was made by Emily Cole with a font made from Esther's actual handwriting .  So you can find out much more about this at projectlovely . org, but basically people between the ages of thirteen and thirty can apply for a five thousand dollar grant to do something to make the world better .  It can be anything that will make the world better .  You can apply at projectlovely . org Two people will be chosen and given five thousand dollars and then we'll follow their projects .  Esther loved the Project for Awesome and Harry Potter Alliance initiatives and I think this is a really beautiful way for her family and friends to continue her legacy and, if you want to contribute to This Star Won't Go Out, you can do so at tswgo . org I also highly recommend Esther's memoir, This Star Won't Go Out .  It's a beautiful book available wherever books are sold .  Thanks to Esther and her amazing family for continuing to inspire our community .  Happy Esther Day, everybody .  Hank, I look forward to saying I love you again in just 365 short days .  I will see you tomorrow .                  
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .   I landed in Venice, Italy yesterday morning feeling a smidge tired and then stood in this very long customs line before catching a ride into the city .  J:  " Are we going to see some palazzos ?  "  S:  " If we want to .  "  J:  " What about some statue-ettos  ?  Are you going to be annoyed that this whole trip, I'm just gonna add a vowel to the end of a noun ?  "  S:  " Yes !  "  J:  " Is that gonna offend you ?  "  S:  " It is .  "  J:  " Ok, well .  .  .  I'll bear that in mind-o .  " We're in Venice to film this huge art show called the Venice Bienale for the Art Assignment- Sarah's show with PBS- but our filming didn't start until tomorrow, so we checked into our hotel room, marveled at the view, and then set out into the city . Venice is a very crowded city, but not with residents .   Its population has shrunk by more than half in the last forty years .   In fact, more people lived in Venice a thousand years ago than do so today .  But visitors still arrive in droves to see the great floating city, its narrow alleys, its gondolas, and its famed art and architecture .   It's so picturesque it often doesn't seem real, and I guess in some ways, it isn't .   I mean, in the 18th century there were more than 8,000 gondolas in Venice and they were the primary means of transportation .   Today, there are about 400 and they are used almost exclusively by tourists .  Then again, you can't really complain about crowds of tourists when you are, you know, part of that crowd . So first we made our way past the Fenice Theater, down a series of winding alleyways to the Libreria Alta Acqua, this sprawling canal-side bookstore with towers of books pressing in on all sides .  Outside, books that had decayed past the point of readability formed a kind of sculpture- a reminder, I guess, of where all books are going .    And also all cities .  But there's no need to despair about such inevitabilities because THERE'S GELATO !  I got tiramisu and chocolate and It .  Was .  Amazing . We stopped at the top of the bridge over the Grand Canal to marvel at the view and then made our way to the Peggy Guggenheim Collection, where we saw an Anish Kapoor sculpture and this Sarah-ish Modigliani and art by Warhol and Frank Stella and Picasso and Jackson Pollock, but mostly I saw the backs of people's heads, because it was really crowded . So we made our way back outside and sat for a while on this bridge watching the gondolas come and go .   It was ridiculously beautiful and the sun felt good on my face and I started thinking about the last time I was in Venice, just over six years ago . My video that day began,  " I'm in Venice, and I'm really sick .  "  I was, in fact, very, very sick .   The next day I had to cut my visit short and fly back to Amsterdam .   It turned out that my gall bladder needed removing .  But in addition to the physical illness, my mental health was near an all-time low .    And now, six years later, Sarah and I were walking toward the Piazza San Marco where I'd filmed that video . It's the tourist capital of Venice, and also the pigeon capital, and back in 2011 I hated it .   I remember it smelling of death and decay and I hated the tourists and the pigeons and the stupid flying lions everywhere, and I was so sick and so scared .    And it sucked !  But yesterday afternoon I was happy in the Piazza San Marco, which has been a gathering place for humans for nearly a millenium .   I loved watching families from all over the world, I loved watching people take selfies with history; God help me, I didn't even mind the pigeons !  And I was reminded that how you feel at your worst is not how you're always going to feel .   I mean sure, the world is going to end and Venice will sink into the sea, but not yet .   Sitting in the piazza drinking unconscionably expensive espresso, I was reminded that the world is what it is, but the world is also what you bring to it .    And who you share it with .   Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  Aggressively unscripted video incoming .  Big day around here .  First off, my new book, Turtles All The Way Down, has a cover .  Look, i-it's right there .  It was designed by Rodrigo Corral, who did the cover of The Fault in our Stars, and it's beautiful, and I think it really captures the feeling of the thought spirals that are at the center of the book .   And I hope that you like it .  By the way, this is the actual cover, but it is not the actual book .  It is wrapped around Paper Towns .  I know some people are disappointed by the lack of actual turtles, but they'll also probably be disappointed by the lack of actual turtles in the book .  There is, however, this amazing GIF or possibly GIF if you want to enjoy actual turtles all the way down .  Okay, also, today, I am reading the final, final, final manuscript for Turtles All The Way Down because it is going to the printer tomorrow .  This probably also means that I am reading the book in its entirety for the last time ever because once something is published, and I can't change anything, I find it unbearable to read it .  So it's kind of an emotional day because, you know, for the last six years, this book has been mostly mine .   And after today, it won't be mine anymore; it'll belong to the people who read it .   And that's exciting, but it's also -hahhh- I- -mm- -mbjj- it's hard to desclibe the feeling .  Desclibe ?  It's very hard to desclibe the feeling .  I just really hope people like the book, but, you know, starting tomorrow, there's nothing I can do .  Let's talk about signing .  Here's the situation: I've signed one hundred and eighty-four thousand sheets of paper .  I am on the first of the two turtles .  I've got eight boxes left; that's sixteen thousand sheets which will take about thirty-two hours .   And I've gotta be done by Monday .  Now, I know I would already be done if I had just not gone to Venice, but I-I liked going to Venice .  So I've gotta finish signing, and then there is the small matter of, uh, reconnecting the sheets with their boxes .  There are a lot of boxes in my basement right now, and also a lot of signed sheets .  How do I get the sheets neatly inside the boxes ?  Well, I'm glad you asked .  I get to use my Lectro-Jogger !  The Lectro-Jogger is this amazing piece of twentieth-century technology that exists solely to line up sheets of paper, and it is truly magical .  Oh, on the subject of signed books, Amazon has sold out of their allotment of probably signed copies of Turtles All The Way Down, but there are still lots of copies available- Books A Million has a lot, for instance .  You can always find out more at probablysignedturtles . com, but yes, they are still available .  While we're talking about books, and yes, I realize that this video is a little bit scattered, I've been reading a lot of poetry lately .  I don't know why; I guess that's just the way that my brain wants to process text at the moment, and there are two books that I would really like to recommend .  The first is Counting Descent by Clint Smith .  This is a very small book, but it packs a punch .  It's got funny moments, like, there's a poem called  " When They Tell You The Brontosaurus Never Existed " , the first line of which is,  " You will wonder what kind of precedent we are setting here .  "   But in other times, it's gut-wrenching .  It's sad .  It's just brilliant .  Also, Solo by Kwame Alexander and Mary Rand Hess .  I've been a fan of Kwame Alexander's for a long time, but this book is really special .  Okay, so book recommendations, signing, cover, literally mispronouncing the word  " describe " , absolutely no transitions of any kind .  .  .  right !  There is one more thing, which is that Hank and I are going on tour when Turtles All The Way Down comes out in October .  I'm so excited .  This'll be our first tour together since 2012 .  I don't yet know exactly where we'll be going, so that information will be forthcoming, but it will probably be only in the United States .  I know, I'm sorry !   But yes, there will be tour details in the coming weeks, and I hope to see a lot of you as we traverse the country .  Alright, Hank, I have to get back to reading my book for the last time before it can never, ever be changed again .  I will see you on Friday .   
Good Morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  So when I think about advances in the field of medicine I usually think about you know like medicines; antibiotics anesthesia chemo therapy .   And if I think harder maybe I'll consider medical devices like; dialysis machines or artificial joints or refrigeration systems for vaccines, but I should be thinking about something else too .  So this is vibiro cholerae the bacterium that causes cholera .  A diarrheal disease that usually only lasts for a few days, but can kill you very quickly via dehydration .  It used to be one of the world's biggest health problems, about 160 years ago a pandemic killed tens of millions of people including over 150,000, Americans .  One of whom was the U . S's own 11th president James .  K .  Polk .  Such was the fear of cholera that Polk was initially buried not with a fancy ceremony befitting a president, but in a public cemetery as dictated by infectious disease regulations .  Cholera was terrifying, you could lose 20 pounds of body weight via diarrhea in under a day and depending on the strain it killed up to half of the people it infected .   And today for most of the world its gone .  Not because of antibiotics, although they can shorten the course of the disease .  Or because of vaccines, although there is a vaccine that provides up to six months of protection, but because of sewers and water purification systems .  Cholera is caused by vibiro cholerae but it is also caused by lack of access to clean water, which means that its not just a health problem its also a social and political one .   And we're seeing that now in Yemen .  So around the world every year more people have access to clean water and safe sanitation facilities, but even before the Yemenese civil war that began in 2015, Yemen was one of the few countries on earth where access to safe drinking water had actually declined since 1990 .   But since the war began the situation has become truly dire .  The war has displaced millions of people and killed more than 10,000 and  thousands more have died from what is the worst outbreak of cholera since at least 1949 when good records started being kept .  The outbreak began after the bombing of Yemen's capital Sana'a, led to the failure of the city's sewer system and cholera has now spread through most of the country .  The World Health Organization estimates that over 500,000 people have been infected about half of them children .  Now cholera is treatable, the first line tratment is oral re-hydration solution which is super cheap .  Infact versions can be made at home with a few ingredients, but it requires clean water which is in short supply in parts of Yemen .  The outbreak is complicated by the fact that most health workers in the hardest hit regions haven't been paid in over a year .  Also malnutrition is now common among Yemeni children which lowers their resistance to infection .  Despite these challenges the cholera outbreak in Yemen has so far been less deadly than many previous outbreaks .  Partly due to the strains of cholera involved, but also because non-governmental  organizations like  Save the Childern are working in extremely difficult conditions to provide oral re-hydration solution .   And many Yemeni health workers continue to provide care even as they go unpaid .   But one of the hard truths about this epidemic is that; fewer people would be dying if the world were paying more attention .  I think there are a lot of reasons why we find this story difficult to pay attention to .  The civil war in Yemen is complex and there is no clear or simple path to peace .  The political drama in the United States feels so astonishing and unprecedented that it's difficult to look at anything else .   And also most of us don't feel like we can do anything about cholera in Yemen .   But that is simply not true .  By donating to organizations working in Yemen, we can help pay for healthcare workers and the hydration solutions that save so many lives .   And i'd also argue that we make a difference just by paying attention .  For one thing it encourages more news coverage about the crisis .   But it also helps shrink the huge empathy gap between the rich and poor worlds .  When there is a political or health crisis in Europe or Australia I pay more attention than I do to crisis elsewhere .  Even though Europe and Austrialia are distant from me, because the people who live in those countries feel close to me .  I  watch them on YouTube, I read their posts on Reddit .  I really believe that all human lives are equally valuable, but I can't live that belief if I can''t empathize with challenges faced by those who live in poverty or in fear of cholera .  So I'm trying to pay attention because the cholera outbreak in Yemen is a health problem and a political problem and also an  empathy problem .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                   
Good morning, Hank !  It's Tuesday .  So I just turned forty, which you'll be unsurprised to learn has led to a bit of existential navel-gazing, but not with the conclusions that one might expect .  So when I was younger, not just in my teens, but also through my twenties, I thought of adulthood as, like, an ending .  Like in my imagination, human life was this epic road trip that started when you were born and ended when you reached your destination, adulthood .   And once you arrived at adulthood, you were never allowed to leave . To me, adulthood meant being weighed down with all these responsibilities .  You have to mow the lawn and take your kids to soccer practice and pay your bills on time, because you care about something called 'your credit score . ' And from what I could tell about adulthood, these responsibilities would sort of pin you down and prevent you from growing or changing and you would just become a robot that fulfills obligations .  You know, I thought it was like an existential death that came several decades before your actual, physical death .  So to delay the onset of adulthood and the metaphysical death that came with it, my strategy in my twenties was to keep my life very light and lean .  Like, one time, I remember saying to a girl I was dating that if I needed to, I could pack my life up into my car in fifteen minutes .  She dumped me shortly thereafter .  Now, of course, I couldn't pack up my wall of memorabilia in fifteen minutes, let alone my whole life .   And of course I'm going to tell you that I was underestimating adulthood--because I have to !  Right ?  Adults can't think of adulthood as a prison from which there is no earthly escape ! We have to trick ourselves into thinking we're having a great time and not at all being slowly strangled to death by homeowners' association meetings .    And, who knows, maybe I am tricking myself, but for the record, I love being in a place that's hard to leave .  I like having roots in a place and friends I've known for twenty-five years, and that wasn't possible twenty years ago, because, you know, I hadn't been alive for twenty-five years .  Now, sometimes I do feel overwhelmed by the obligations of adulthood, but even so, I would not want to be fifteen again, or for that matter, twenty-five .  I know that's easy for me to say, because I've been incredibly lucky in both my professional and personal lives, but I know a lot of middle-aged people who are leading a wide variety of lives and I honestly think that my experience is more the rule than the exception .  Adulthood is so underrated, but more importantly, it turns out that adulthood is not a destination .  Like, I don't think my life has grown less interesting as it has grown more settled . I used to think that nothing stank of failure quite like living in the suburbs with your spouse and your two kids .  That such an existence was a tremendous waste of what Mary Oliver called  " your one wild and precious life .  "  But I find at forty that my life feels wilder and more precious than ever .  That's not to say that my way of being an adult is the only good way, or that it's right for everyone .  It's just that it's right for me .   And if this is forty ?  I'll take it .  Thanks so much everybody for their birthday wishes and turtle cakes !  Three more things . First, look, look, look !  I have finished signing all two hundred thousand copies !   And the boxes are gone !  Those two hundred thousand sheets of paper are now at the printer in Virginia being bound into copies of Turtles All the Way Down . Amazon and barnesandnoble . com have both sold out of their allotment of signed copies, but there is still lots of other ways to get them .  More info at probablysignedturtles . com ! Secondly, my video next week will be me reading the first chapter of Turtles All the Way Down .  That video will be over four minutes, but that is not punishable .  There are precedents set in 2011 and 2008, when I read the first chapters of The Fault in Our Stars and Paper Towns .  And lastly, I want to say to our friends and viewers affected by flooding in Texas and Louisiana and also in India, Nepal, and Bangladesh that we are thinking of you .  Nerdfighters, if you are able, I hope you will join me in donating to relief organizations .  There are links in the doodly-doo below .  Hank, I will see you on Friday .   
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .   And this is the first chapter of Turtles All the Way Down, which I'll be reading to you today .  Okay, I think all you need to know is that this story is narrated by a sixteen-year-old girl named Aza Holmes .  Also, it starts with an epigraph from Arthur Schopenhauer,  " Man can do what he wills, but he cannot will what he wills .  "   Chapter 1  Chapter 1: At the time I first realized I might be fictional, my weekdays were spent at a publicly funded institution on the North side of Indianapolis called White River High School, where I was required to eat lunch at a particular time, between 12:37 and 1:14 PM, by forces so much larger than myself, that I couldn't even begin to identify them .  If those forces had given me a different lunch period, or if the table mates who helped author my fate had chosen a different topic of conversation that September day, I would have met a different end-or at least a different middle .   But I was beginning to learn that your life is a story told about you, not one that you tell .  Of course, you pretend to be the author . You have to .  You think,  " I now choose to go to lunch, "  when that monotone beeps rings from on high at 12:37, but really, the bell chooses .  You think you're the painter, but you're the canvas . Hundreds of voices were shouting over one another in the cafeteria so that the conversation became mere sound, the rushing of a river over rocks .   And as I sat beneath the fluorescent cylinders spewing aggressively artificial light, I thought about how we all believed our ourselves to be the hero of some personal epic, when in fact, we were basically identical organisms colonizing a vast and windowless room that smelled of Lysol and lard .  I was eating a peanut butter and honey sandwich and drinking a Dr . Pepper .  To be honest, I find the whole process of masticating plants and animals, and then shoving them down my esophagus kind of disgusting, so I was trying not to think about the fact that I was eating, which is a form of thinking about it .  Across the table from me, Michael Turner was scribbling in a yellow papered notebook . Our lunch table was like a long-running play on Broadway .  The cast changed some over the years, but the roles never did .  Michael was the artsy one . He was talking with Daisy Ramirez who played the role of my best and most fearless friend since elementary school, but I couldn't follow their conversation over the noise of all the others .  What was my part in this play ?  The sidekick . I was Daisy's friend or Miss Holmes' daughter .  I was somebody's something .  I felt my stomach begin to work on the sandwich, and even over everybody's talking, I could hear it digesting . All the bacteria chewing the slime of peanut butter, the students inside of me eating inside if my internal cafeteria .  A shiver convulsed through me .   " Didn't you go to camp with him ?  "  Daisy asked me .   " With who ?  "   " Davis Picket, "  She said .   " Yeah, "  I said .   " Why ?  "   " Aren't you listening ?  "  Daisy asked .  I am listening, I thought, to the cacophony of my digestive tract . Of course, I'd long known that I was playing host to a massive collection of parasitic organisms, but I didn't much like being reminded of it .  By cell count, humans are approximately 50 percent microbial, meaning that about half of the cells that make you up are not yours at all .  There's something like a thousand times more microbes living in my particular biome than there are human beings on Earth, and it often seems like I can feel them living and breeding and dying in and on me . I wiped my sweaty palms on my jeans and tried to control my breathing .  Admittedly, I have some anxiety problems, but I would argue it isn't irrational to be concerned about the fact that you are a skin-encased bacterial colony .   Michael said,  " his dad was about to be arrested for bribery or something, but the night before the raid he disappeared .  there's a hundred thousand dollar reward out for him .  "   "  And you know his kid, "  Daisy said .   " knew him .  "  I answered .  I watched Daisy attack her school-provided rectangular pizza and green beans with a fork . She kept glancing up at me, her eyes widening as if to say, 'Well ? ' I could tell she wanted me to ask her something, but I couldn't tell what because my stomach wouldn't shut up which was forcing me deep inside a worry that I'd somehow contracted a parasitic infection .  I could half hear Mychal telling Daisy about his new art project, in which he was using Photoshop to average the faces of a hundred people named Michael, and the average of their faces would be this new one hundred and first Michael and it was an interesting idea and I wanted to listen, but the cafeteria was so loud and I couldn't stop wondering if there was something wrong with the microbial balance of power inside me .  Excessive abdominal noise is an uncommon but, not unprecedented presenting symptom of infection with the bacteria   which can be fatal . I pulled out my phone and searched human microbiome to reread the Wikipedia's introduction to the trillions of microorganisms currently inside me .  I clicked over to the article about   scrolling to the part about how most   infections occur in hospitals .  I scrolled down further to a list of symptoms, none of which I had except for the excessive abdominal noises, although I knew from previous searches that the Cleveland Clinic had reported the case of one person who died of   after presenting at the hospital with only abdominal pain and fever . I reminded myself that I didn't have a fever, and myself replied,  " you don't have a fever yet .  "  At the cafeteria where a shrinking slice of my consciousness still resided, Daisy was telling Michael that his averaging project shouldn't be about people named Michael, but about imprisoned men who'd later been exonerated .   " It'll be easier anyway, "  she said  " because they'll all have mugshots taken from the same angle and then it's not just about names but also about race and class, and mass incarceration " , and Michael was like  " you're a genius Daisy " , and she said  " you sound surprised .  "   And meanwhile I was thinking that if half the cells inside of you are not you doesn't that challenge the entire notion of me as a singular pronoun, yet alone the author of my fate, and I fell pretty far down that recursive wormhole until it transported me completely out of the White River high school cafeteria into some non sensorial place only properly crazy people get to visit .  Ever since I was little I've pressed my right thumbnail into the finger-pad of my middle finger, so now there's this weird callous over my fingerprint .  After so many years of doing this I can open up a crack in the skin really easily, so I cover it up with a Band-Aid to try to prevent infection, but sometimes I get worried that there already is an infection, and so I need to drain it and the only way to do that is to re-open the wound and press out any blood that will come, and once I start thinking about splitting the skin apart I literally can not not do it . I apologize for the double negative but, it's a real double negative of a situation, a bind from which negating the negation is the only escape .  So, anyway I wanted to feel my thumb nail biting into the skin of my finger-pad, and I knew that resistance was more or less futile, so beneath the cafeteria table I slipped the Band-Aid off my finger and dug my thumb nail into the callous skin until I felt it crack open .   " Holmesy " , Daisy said, I looked up at her,  " we're almost through lunch and you haven't even mentioned my hair !  "  she shook out her hair with so-red-they-were-pink highlights .  Right, she'd dyed her hair . I swum up out of the depths and said,  " It's bold .  "   " I know right it says:  " Ladies and gentleman and people who do not identify as ladies or gentleman, Daisy Ramirez won't break her promises but she will break your heart !  "  "  Daisy's self claimed life motto was 'break hearts not promises', she kept threatening to get it tattooed on her ankle when she turned eighteen .  Daisy turned back to Micahel and I to my thoughts .  The stomach rumbling had grown, if anything, louder . I felt like I might vomit .  For someone who dislikes bodily fluids, I throw up quite a lot .   " Holmesy, you ok ?  "  Daisy asked, I nodded .  Sometimes I wondered why she lied me, or at least why she tolerated me . Why any of them did .  Even I found myself annoying .  I could feel sweat sprouting from my forehead and once I begin to sweat, it's impossible to stop . I'll keep sweating for hours, and not just my face or my armpits, my neck sweats, my boobs sweat, my calves sweat, maybe I did have a fever .  Beneath te table I slid the old Band-Aid into my pocket and without looking pulled out a new one, unwrapped it and then glanced down to apply it to my finger .  All the while I was breathing in through my nose and out through my mouth in the manner advised by Doctor Karen Singh, exhaling at a pace that would make a candle flicker but not go out,  " imagine that candle Aza, flickering from your breath but still there, always there "  . So I tried that, but the thought spiral kept tightening anyway .  I could hear Doctor Singh saying that I shouldn't get out my phone, that I musn't look up the same questions over and over, but I got it out anyway, and re read the human microbiome Wikipedia article .  The thing about a spiral is, if you follow it inward, it never actually ends, it just keeps tightening, infinitely . I sealed the Ziploc bag around the last quarter of my sandwich, got up, and tossed it into an overfilled trash can .  I heard a voice from behind me,  " How concerned should I be that you haven't said more than two words in a row all day ?  "   " Though spiral " , I mumbled in reply .  Daisy had known me since we were six, long enough to get it .   " I figured, sorry man, let's hang out today !  "  This girl Molly walked up to us smiling and said,  " uh, Daisy, just FYI your Kool-Ai dye job is staining your shirt .  "  Daisy looked down at her shoulders and indeed, her striped top had tuned pink in spots . She flinched for a second, then straightened her spine,  " Yeah it's part of the look Molly, stained shirt are huge in Paris right now, "  she turned away from Molly and said  " right, so we'll go to your house and watch StarWars: Rebels .  "  Daisy was really into Star Wars, and not just the movies but also the books and the animated shows and the kid's shows, where they're all made out of LEGO .  Like she wrote fan fiction about chewbacca's love life,  " and we will improve your mood until you are able to say three or even four words in a row, sound good ?  "   " Sounds good .  "   "  And then you can take me to work, sorry but I need a ride .  "   " Ok .  "  I wanted to say more but the thoughts kept coming, unbidden and unwanted .  If I'd been the author I would have stopped thinking about my microbiome, I would have told Daisy how much I liked her idea for Michael's art project, and I would have told her that I did remember Davis Pickett .  That I remember being eleven and carrying a vague but constant fear .  I would have told her that I remembered once at camp lying next to Davis on the edge of a dock, our legs dangling over, our backs against the rough home planks of wood, staring together, up at a cloudless summer sky .  I would have told her that Davis and I never talked much or even looked at each other, but it didn't matter because we were looking at the same sky together, which is maybe more intimate than eye contact anyway .  Imean anybody can look at you, it's quite rare to find someone who sees the same world you see .   Outro  Thanks for listening !  I'm not gonna lie I'm very nervous, but I hope that you liked it .  Uh, if you wanna pre order the book there are links below .  Hank, I will see you on Friday .  
Excuse me while I use my dog for white-balancing, good morning Hank it's Thursday . Special surprise bonus video so Hank for the first time since 2012, we are going on tour to celebrate the release of Turtles All the Way Down and also because we need an excuse to spend a few weeks together . There will be music and laughter and joy and I'll probably cry because I cry a lot .  Qs will be A'd, surprises will be plentiful, and news from Mars and AFC Wimbledon will be shared . So today I thought I'd answer real questions from real nerdfighters about the tour beginning with  " Where are you going ?  " OK there are 19 stops and I'm gonna do this all in one take: New York, Washington DC, Charlotte North Carolina, Asheville North Carolina, Altanta Georgia, Orlando Florida where we will be playing Hank's High School Auditorium, Nashville Tennesse, Cincinnati Ohio, my hometown of Indianapolis Indiana, St Louis Missouri, Chicago Illinois, Minneapolis and then on to Hank's hometown of Missoula Montana, from there, to Spokane Washington, and then Bellingham Washington, and then Portland Oregon, and then two shows in the San Fransisco Bay Area, and then down to Los Angeles and I did it !  Who says that I'm over-reliant on jump cuts !  ? One other thing, sadly there will be no Hank, at the shows in Asheville and Atlanta but there will be special surprise guest Hanks playing the role of Hank and you will hardly know the difference .  So a few of you might remember that in 2012 we did not visit the Midwest and there was much consternation and I said at the time  " so Midwest this is me hugging you, saying I'm sorry, we'll be there next time .  "  You will note that just six short years later I am keeping that promise and this time I must say to the people of Texas and the American Southwest and also the people living in the vast of not America, I'm sorry and we will try to visit you soon . Why no love for   ?  I love   !  I've always loved  ,   and then express regret . Are these shows gonna be spoiler-free ?  Yes, when it comes to my books but there might be some Star Wars spoilers . Is it weird if I come alone ?  No, lots of people will be coming alone, in fact there will be a special letter in the program just for people coming alone .   But also you might find that you can make friends over at the Tuataria discord or maybe even at the show .  How much for the tickets ?  So ticket prices have been set by the bookstores hosting the event so that they don't lose money, so it depends on the city and the venue .   But every ticket comes with a signed copy of Turtles All the Way Down and also some other goodies . Will there be a book signing ?  Right, so this is the bad news, partly because of the size of the venues, but mostly because of my brain's malfunctioning, there will not be a signing after the show .  I'm really sorry about this and it's something that I've struggled with a lot but, I-, yeah it's just something I have to do, so, I'm sorry . Will you guys be singing together ?  Yeah I'm also sorry about this the answer is probably yes but only briefly ! Are you bringing turtles ?  Only metaphorical ones but we're bringing a lot of those, like, an infinite set of them .  There is a link in the doobly-doo below where you can get more info about each event and also tickets, I will try to be in comments answering your questions .  I hope to see lots of you on tour it's gonna be an awesome time and Hank I cannot wait to traverse the country with you .  I will see you on Friday .  
Gooood morning, Hank, it's Tuesday, it's Question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real nerdfighters .  Let's get right to it .  How is the world going to end ? Im glad we're starting on a light note .  So for the last couple years I've been thinking a lot about this reptile species called Tuatara-I've actually got a tuatara on my wall back there .  One of the things that gets me about tuatara is that they've been on earth for over 150 million years . Humans, meanwhile, emerged like maybe 300,000 years ago, so we've been around for at most 0 . 2% of tuatara history .  What I'm getting at is that I kinda suspect that our world may end a long time before The World .  As for how, I'm with T . S .  Eliot with that one-not with a bang, but with a whimper . So what's even the point of getting out of bed ? Okay, I think the point of getting out of bed is to seek a reason to get out of bed .   And I know that's a kind of a recursive answer to your question, but I don't think we can expect like fullfillment and meaning to like descend upon us miraculously .  I think meaning is something we make together, and that's what gets me out of bed in the morning .  Or at the latest, in the early afternoon . Where did you write Turtles All The Way Down ? Mostly in bed, now that I think of it .  I'm not great at following my own advice . The internet makes me feel worse but I can't stop using it question mark ?  Yeeaaah .  Yeah .  I do think there are some pockets of the internet that make us feel better, but due to some issues with the wiring of the human brain, and also the arcitecture of the social internet, it is difficult, at least for me, to spend a lot of time in those places . I actually have the same problem with food .  Like, I could eat the stuff that makes me feel good, but some considerable portion of me seems to want to not feel good .  That's not really an answer to your question, it's just an expression of commiseration .  Are you still mad that pennies exist ? I wouldnt say mad so much as disappointed . Are you dreading or looking forward to the book tour ? I am so looking forward to it !  I can't even tell you how much joy it brings me to be on tour with Hank .  Don't tell him i said that . Hey, what cities on the turtles tour are sold out or close to being sold out ? The shows in Bellingham, Chicago, and Atlanta are sold out .  I'm sorry that happened so quickly .  A number of other places are close .  So now is a good time to get tickets-here are all the cites we will be visiting, more info at turtlesallthewaydownbook . com, link in the doobly-doo . Is it rude if i come to your book tour mostly to see Hank ? No, why do you think I'm going ? Vulcans or Klingons ? For me, that's more of an AND than an OR .  Vulcans AND Klingons . Coffee or tea ? Again, I'm gonna go with and . How do you feel about animals with no necks ? Oh no .  No no no .  profoundly disturbing .  Undo, undo ! If you could live in any time besides this one, when would it be ? Probably just the time like right before I found out about the corner of the internet devoted to animals with no necks . Best hot dog you ever consumed ? One time in Reykjavik, Iceland I went to this hot dog stand and the hot dogs were like a dollar, and it wasn't just the best hot dog I've ever eaten, it was one of the two or three best MEALS I had ever eaten .  I know this wouldn't surprise Freud, but I sometimes literally DREAM about that hotdog . Who's your least favorite American founding father ? James Wilkinson was like an actual secret agent working against the United States, but even so I think you could make a case for Aaron Burr . Is Turtles All The Way Down going to be translated into Spanish and/or other languages ? Yes .  In fact, here is the Spanish cover .  Do you ever feel like something you finished isn't good enough ? Yes !  I feel that way every Tuesday evening and then once every 3-6 years when I publish a new book .  Like if you're writing a book, the goal is to use language to create an experience in someone else's mind, right ?   And I think there will always be failures in that .  Partly because of your own insufficiencies-you're always gonna run up against the limit of your talent-but also partly because of the insuficiencies of language itself .  I thinks it's the same with building something in the physical world .  Like both the wood and the carpenter will always have their imperfections .  So inevitably all buildings will fall short of the way they're initially imagined, but even so they can provide us shelter . Hank, congratualtions on a great VidCon Australia, I hope you're getting some rest because we go on tour in just 27 days !   But before then, I will see you on Friday .                  
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday . So I think one of the great unanswered questions of world history is, why cities ?  Like, for 95 percent of human history basically, everyone was a hunter-gatherer living in a small band of maybe a few dozen people .  And then around 12,000 years ago communities started to get bigger with the advent of agriculture and domesticated livestock .  Suddenly one person could harvest and/or slaughter more than one person's food needs, meaning that not everyone had to be in the food acquisition business .   And that allowed for specialization of labor--professional priests and scribes and soldiers and so on .  But how and why that happened is the subject of much debate amongst historians, not least because the shift from hunting and gathering to agriculture seems to have been completely irrational .  For starters, hunter-gatherers seem to have been healthier than early agriculturalists .  Like analysis of human remains and archaeological sites show us that famine and starvation were much more common among early settlement dwellers . Also, hunter-gatherers were less likely to die of disease pandemics because, you know, cities meant lots of people living together and getting each other sick, and also living with livestock, so diseases could cross the species barrier . So living in early agricultural settlements was bad for your health .  It also probably meant more work .  Like, studies of twentieth-century hunting and gathering communities show that members of those communities work on average less than twenty hours per week acquiring food, and also less than twenty hours per week on so-called domestic labor, which is everything from preparing food to tool and shelter maintenance . Everything we can gather about early agricultural life is that it was a lot more labor-intensive, and certainly contemporary life is a lot more labor-intensive .  Like, Americans, for instance, work on average forty hours a week and spend another thirty-six hours per week on domestic labor . So why would anyone wanna live in a city, where your life is harder but also shorter ?  Well, there are many theories about this--some people think the chicken of state power came first, that like the moment there was a surplus it was taxed by the state, and then the power structure became inescapable for the people living under it .  Others think the egg came first, that people chose to use the surplus to create a state that could protect them from outside attack . Some theorize that then, as now, cities were just more exciting places to live, with more connections to make .  Others argue the relative equality of hunter-gatherer communities was unattractive to those who wanted power and that the drive to concentrate power drove the growth of cities .  But whatever happened, it does seem like cities were not, in the short- or even medium-term interest of those who lived in them . Now, it'd be easy to say, and many have, that this was all a mistake and we should've just remained hunter-gatherers .  Certainly agriculture and the ensuing human-centric planet has been very bad for biodiversity on earth .   But we also shouldn't romanticize pre-agricultural communities, where infanticide was usually common and rates of death by violence were usually much higher than they are now .  And while settlements do seem to have been initially disastrous for those who lived in them, they did eventually lead to better lives for humans by almost any measure .  We are less likely to die of infectious disease or malnutrition or violence than ever .   And while, as I mentioned earlier, we do work more than hunter-gatherers, we also work less than we have at any point in the last 150 years .  Meanwhile, absolute poverty is declining dramatically, and median U . S .  household income is at its highest point ever .  But I'd actually argue the greatest benefit of cities has been reading and writing, which have allowed us to speed our accumulation of knowledge and fueled discoveries in science and technology and which could only be invented in big communities with specialization of labor .  But there were trade-offs to the choices our ancestors made, and there are trade-offs to the choices we're making today .  To live intentionally, I think you have to bear in mind what you believe to be the ground of meaning in life .  Like, if the point of life is to preserve biodiversity on our home planet, then hunting and gathering is the way to go .  If the point is to seek an understanding of the universe and our place in it, then specialization of labor is a necessity .  But I'd have to say that while I understand much has been lost, I am grateful to live in a world with telescopes and vaccines and YouTube and books . Late update !  Speaking of books, Hank, I am so incredibly excited you are publishing a book next year !  Fancy New York Times article in the doobly-doo below ! I continue to be awed by your ability to do so many things so well .  It is An Absolutely Remarkable Thing .  That is the title, but it's also how I feel .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  So today I want to discuss what we know about the relationship between Donald Trump's presidential campaign and the Russian government's interference in our 2016 Elections, but first a couple notes .  Russia is a huge and massively diverse country of 144 million people, but in the context of this election meddling, we are talking specifically about Vladimir Putin and his government . Russia and the US are currently adversaries .  Putin's regime has sought to undermine democracy and democratic institutions around the world and in the US's view invaded a sovereign nation, but whether the United States and Russia are friends is not actually that relevant to the legal questions at hand .  Also there is a lot of speculation about this story online .  For the purposes of this video, I'm only going to refer to events that have either been confirmed by the people who participated in them or reported independently by two separate news organizations .  Sources, as always, in the video info below . Okay, here we go ! The Department of Homeland Security and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence have stated with high confidence that the Russian government sought to influence the outcome of the US Presidential election favoring Donald Trump over Hillary Clinton .  They've also stated that Russia's leader, Vladimir Putin, personally oversaw this operation, which actually shouldn't come as that much of a surprise .  The Putin regime has a history of trying to sway foreign elections and, also, Trump's policy positions were broadly much more favorable to Putin than Clinton's policy positions .  I mean, as far back as 2007 Trump said that Putin was  " doing a great job .  "  The Trump campaign even cut proposed language from the official Republican Party platform about supporting Ukraine and their ongoing conflict with Russia . Okay, so the Putin regime meddled in our election in at least three ways: via a disinformation campaign in which they created and shared inaccurate news stories, by trying to breach election data in several states, and by hacking the Democratic National Committe and DNC leader John Podesta to access their emails, which they then released to Wikileaks .  Now you may not believe all of that, and certainly both Wikileaks and the Russian government deny it, but there is overwhelming agreement not just within US intelligence circles but also among both Republican and Democratic members of Congress .  Who, as you may have noticed, struggle to find common ground on pretty much anything .  The email hack in particular made a significant impact because it created a huge imbalance of information .  The public has access to all these Democratic emails, many of which one might charitably describe as sleazy, but not to any similar Republican emails that might have existed .  It's a bit like saying:  " Can you believe all this crap in candidate X's tax returns, "  when candidate Y doesn't release their tax returns at all .  Now you can say, and you ought to, that political parties just shouldn't be sleazy .   But my point is only that it created an information imbalance, and that, by choosing whose emails we saw, Putin had a lot of say in the election narrative .  Of course none of that means the election was illegitimate - it wasn't - or that Trump didn't win - he did .  Ad benefiting from a foreign government's propaganda initiative is not a crime .  However, colluding with that government is .  Probably .  US election law says that a foreign national, be they Canadian or Russian or Martian, cannot make a contribution or a donation of anything of value in connection with a US election .  It also says that no American can solicit or knowingly accept a donation or anything of value from a foreign national .  I suspect we're going to hear the phrase  " thing of value "  a lot in the coming months, by the way, in part because the courts haven't been super clear at deciding what it means .  If, hypothetically, you received damning information about your opponent from a foreign national, and then shared that information, that is probably receiving a thing of value, but it hasn't been entirely established .   And there are a lot of nuances here .  Have you received a thing of value if you know about the thing, and approve of sharing it, but don't share it yourself ?  Did you solicit a thing of value, if you set up a meeting with a foreign national in the hopes they would provide something they didn't provide, et cetera ? So many people in the Trump's campaign had past relationships with Putin's regime .  Trump's one time campaign manager, Paul Manafort, received around $30 million working for Oleg Deripaska, who is seen as one of Putin's closest business confidantes .  Michale Caputo, an early Trump adviser had previously worked on a Russian campaign to improve Putin's image among Americans .  Trump's Attorney General, Jeff Sessions had to recuse himself from the Russia investigation after it was revealed he had previously undisclosed meetings with Sergei Kislyak, Russia's ambassador to the United States .   And Michael Flynn, Trump's first national security advisor, failed to disclose payments that were made to him by an arm of the Russian government .  And failure to disclose such payments is illegal for former military officers .  Flynn also talked several times with Sergei Kislyak during the transition - the period after the election, but before Trump became president .  One of those calls occurred on December 29th, which happened to be the same day the US announced new sanctions on Russia .  Flynn initially denied that he discussed sanctions on that call, but it became apparent that there was evidence to the contrary because Kislyak's calls are routinely monitored by US intelligence .  Discussing sanctions policy on that call was possibly illegal, I mean Flynn was not yet the national security advisor, but he was trying to negotiate foreign policy .   But a greater concern is that the day after Trump learned that Flynn lied about discussing sanctions, Trump asked FBI director James Comey for  " loyalty .  "   And then, the day after Flynn eventually resigned, Trump asked Comey to drop the Flynn investigation altogether .  This is alarming, because in the United States, the Justice Department and the FBI are supposed to operate independently from the White House .  That's part of the reason why FBI directors serve a ten year term: they're supposed to be above party politics and not beholden to one particular leader .  Trump asking Comey to drop the Flynn investigation was a significant breach of protocol .  In fact, some have argued that it amounts to obstruction of justice, which is the charge that Richard Nixon was eventually impeached for .   And then, a few months later, Trump fired James Comey .  Initially the White House said the FBI Director was being fired for his mishandling of the Hillary Clinton email case .   But then, after a few days of trying on various justifications, Trump acknowledged it was mostly about the collusion-with-Russia investigation .   But if firing Comey was intended to make the investigation end, that gambit definitely failed because a few days later, the Department of Justice appointed a Special Counel, Robert Mueller . He is tasked with building a team to look into collusion and  " any matters that arise from the investigation .  "  Since then, Mueller has been doing just that, and it has been reported that he's working with at least two Grand Juries to decide who, if anyone, should be charged with crimes .  The most serious evidence of collusion that has emerged so far involves a meeting with a Kremlin connected Russian lawyer that was attended by Donald Trump Jr . , Paul Manafort, and Jared Kusher, the President's son in law and Senior Advisor .  So during the setup for the meeting, Donald Trump Jr .  was told via email that the lawyer had  ,  " incriminating information about Hillary Clinton "  that she wanted to share as  ,  " part of Russia and its government's support for Mr .  Trump .  "  That should've been a HUGE red flag, like the correct response there is:  " I cannot accept anything of value from a foreign national in connection with a campaign - especially not if it's part of a foreign government's support for my candidate .  "   But instead Donald Trump Jr .  replied in part,  " If it's what you say, I love it, especially later in the summer .  "  The meeting that ensued remains secret for over a year until July of 2017, when the New York Times published a report about it .  Donald Trump Jr .  initially said the meeting was about adoption, but then a day later said that the meeting had been about Hillary Clinton, but that the lawyer  " had no meaningful information .  "  Even if that's true, some legal scholars still think the meeting itself was illegal depending on your definition of  " soliciting "  and  " thing of value .  "  Kushner, meanwhile, failed to mention this, and also several other meetings with Russian officials on his initial security clearance application .  He also apparently asked the Russian government for a so-called  " back channel "  that would've allowed Kushner to communicate directly with Moscow without US intelligence listening in .  Much of this is suspicious - Trump Jr . , Kushner, Manafort, and Flynn have all been caught in lies about the extent and nature with their contacts with the Russian government  But   none of it is unambiguous evidence of collusion or cooperation with foreign nationals .   And  , none of what is known publicly involves the President himself, except for him asking Comey to drop the investigation .  That said, Trump's behavior towards Russia has, at times, been strange .  As President, he had a private meeting with Putin without a US interpreter present, which is extremely unusual .  Trump has also gone to great lengths not to criticize Putin and he has refused to publicly acknowledge or condemn the Putin regime's interference in our election .   But none of that is illegal - and connecting the dots can lead to a very misleading picture when you don't have many dots .  What we know is that the Russian government sought to influence the US Presidential Election in Trump's favor, that at least one person in Trump's campaign knew about this, and that several people close to Trump had interactions with Russian foreign nationals that they either failed to disclose or lied about . None of the meetings reported so far involve the President himself, although he did try to interfere with the ensuing investigation .  So that's what we know .  What we don't know is almost everything .  We don't know what was discussed in the meetings, whether any American accepted any thing of value from a foreign national .   And we certainly don't know if any American participated in collusion with the Russian government's efforts .  Also we don't even know for what what a  " thing of value "  is . I think it's important to follow this story because it has big implications for the present and future of our democracy, but I also think it's really important to remember that we are living in the middle of this story and we don't know how it's going to end .  Now, if you're looking for information to confirm your pre-existing biases, you'll find plenty of that on both sides .   But the whole truth, we just don't know that yet .  I hope we will some day .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .   My new book  " Turtles All the Way Down "  comes out in exactly one week .  In a related story, the sound my anxiety makes is berr berr berr berr .    But today I want to talk about other books I read this year and want to recommend to you .  Let's do this by genre .  Okay, we'll start with YA fiction since that's what I write .  Aside from  " The Hate U Give "  which as I said in my blurb I truly believe will be remembered as a classic of our time, there are a few books I want to recommended, all of which made me cry although, to be fair, I am a bit teary of late .  First, the  " Inexplicable Logic of my Life "  by Benjamin Alire Saenz, whose books are always so tender and generous to the reader as you'll know if you read  " Aristotle and Dante Discover the Secrets of the Universe, "  but this one might be my favourite .   Secondly,  " We Are Okay "  by Nina LaCour, a poetic meditation on loss that took me right back to those last days of adolescence with lines like  " We were nostalgic for a time that wasn't over yet .  "    And then there's  " Piecing Me Together "  by Renee Watson, a book that genuinely changed the way I think about the role art plays in human life .  I read this book in two days and I have been thinking about it for six months .   Okay, moving on to regular, grown up literary fiction .  My favourite 2017 book in that genre has to be  " Little Fires Everywhere "  by Celeste Ng which is just brilliant .  I mean, I know lots of people are talking about it, but with good reason; it's amazing .  I really think we should be talking about Celeste Ng's books in the context of other great chroniclers of American Suburban fiction, like John Updike .   Secondly,  " The King is Always Above the People "  by Daniel Alarcon .  So full disclosure, I went to high school with Daniel, where he beat me out for the creative writing award three years in a row .   And it must be said with good reason his stories still astonish me with their precision and their power .  It is no wonder that this book is a finalist for the National Book Award .     Okay, poetry .  I don't know why but I've read a lot of poetry this year and it's been a tremendous consolation to me .  Instead of like summarizing these books, I think I'm just gonna quote from them .    First, Nicole Sealey's  " Ordinary Beast "  -  " 'You look just like your mother,' he says, 'who looks just like a fire of suspicious origin . ' "   Then there's Kaveh Akbar's brilliant  " Calling a Wolf a Wolf "  -  " Time will break what doesn't bend, even time, even you .  "    And lastly, Clint Smith's  " Counting Descent "  -  " I have always used words to try to convince the world that I am worth something .  "   Some nonfiction I enjoyed this year .  First,  " City of Light, City of Poison, "  a history book that reads like a thriller about the first police chief of Paris investing a series of poisonings that may have involved aristocrats close to Louis the XIV .  It is bonkers and I especially enjoyed the portrayals of what life was like for regular people in 17th century Paris .   I also loved  " City of Thorns "  by Ben Rawlence which follows a handful of refugees over the course of many years living in Dadaab refugee camp which was once home to over 500,000 people .  It's a difficult book that doesn't offer easy answers but it shows us that refugee stories are human stories .   Speaking of important topics,  " The Water Will Come, "  a book about climate change and the future of humanity .  Hank, I like science books but I don't usually find them, like page turny; This one really is .  It's a thriller in which the hero in peril is us .   I also loved  " The Man Who Couldn't Stop "  by David Adam .  Some readers of  " Turtles All the Way Down "  may want to learn more about Obsessive Compulsive Disorder, and this is a good place to start .    I also want to say I'm looking forward to a few books that come out this month that I haven't read yet including Nnedi Okorafor's  " Akata Warrior, "  E .  Lockhart's  " Genuine Fraud " , and Maggie Stiefvater's  " All the Crooked Saints, "  so my tour reading is sorted, I think .    But I am interested in finding out what your reading and enjoying in the comment section below .  Hank !  In one week  " Turtles All the Way Down "  will be out in the world and we will be on tour !   Nerdfighters, you can find out more about both those things at turtlesallthewaydownbook . com, link in the dooblydoo below .   I really, really hope you enjoy the book, thank for reading and DFTBA .  Hank, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank it's Tuesday .  Greetings from extremely muggy Florida .  I have one day off this month and you'll never guess where I spent it: LEGOLAND .  This place is great but I wouldn't necessarily characterize it as  " relaxing .  "  Hank I'm on I-4 in Orlando and I'm remembering that, like, twelve years ago you had a viral hit website called IHateI-4 . com and it just, it made me smile . Anyway, it's gonna take me a while to get to the next place but I'm gonna use movie magic to get you there quicker . Aaand we've arrived .  Just like that .  It took 45 minutes .  I have five minutes until my Runner's World photo shoot .  That's right, I'm doing a photo shoot for the magazine Runner's World . I am now literally a fitness model .  I mean, so majestic .  Is that a middle-aged person or a gazelle ? Ok Hank, I am now at your old high school and I, I gotta go sign some books . Brief pause for book signing . Alright, so first off, quick thank you to the Winter Park High School students who made this paper town . They also got us t-shirts and special green green room chairs and a chair for our secret brother, Dave .   But most importantly, they got Hank's high school yearbook !  LOOK AT TINY BABY HANK ! LOOK AT HANK'S HIGH SCHOOL YEARBOOK PHOTO OH MY GOD !  " Brian Bock and Hank Green enjoy some quality time surfing 'the' quote 'net' .  They believe that internet privileges should be given to all seniors .  "  Hank, I agree !  Hello, and greetings from the future, because the rest of my Orlando footage got corrupted .  We are now in, er mmm, Nashville ?  So Hank, this has been an awesome week .  We've performed in front of more than 10,000 people, including our spouses and children and parents and elementary school teachers .  Turtles All the Way Down has reached #1 on Amazon's Bestseller List .  It's also gotten extremely generous reviews, including maybe the two best reviews any of my books have ever received .  I'll link to those in the doobly-doo below .   And also reading people's incredibly thoughtful responses to the book has brought me to tears again and again this week .  But it's also been a really difficult week, like, my mental health, to speak frankly, is not where I would like it to be, partly because I am so far outside my usual routine .   And while I do really love to tour and talk with people about the book, it's also a bit overwhelming . So Hank, I hope you'll forgive this moment of sincerity, but watching you perform at your old high school last night, I kept thinking about how incredibly kind you've been to me the last few weeks .  Like you're taking a month away from your family and your many jobs to be on tour with me . You turned your frickin Twitter profile into actual turtles all the way down .  And you've just been there for me so consistently in a way that frankly goes back to when you were a student at that high school .  I am really lucky, and really grateful .  Thank you .  Yeaaaah, that was way too much, you gotta cut the sentimentality somehow .  You gotta say something mean about him now . I'm not very good at cutting insults, but I know someone who is .  .  . Hey Alice, say something silly about uncle Hank .  *pause* *laughter* That is good, yeah, that works, thanks, I love you .  Bye .  *laughter*Hank, you have a stupid butt .  That is a direct quote from my 4 year old daughter .  It's also kind of true, with the ulcerative colitis and everything .  I'll see you on Friday .  Actually, I'll see you like, 5 minutes from now .                  
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  Greetings from beautiful, and somewhat windy, Chamberlain, South Dakota . So, Hank, earlier today, I signed what I believed to be every copy of Turtles All the Way Down currently available for sale or borrowing in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, and I met a lot of wonderful librarians and booksellers and confused Target shoppers .   And I also filmed the whole thing, and it would have made a great video, but then I destroyed my memory card . What happened, and I desperately wish I were making this up, is that I was eating pretzel chips by the handful, because of course I was, while fiddling with my memory card .   And, um, somehow my hands got confused about what was what .  I mean, to be fair, a memory card and a pretzel chip have almost the exact same thickness and overall weight .   But really, that's not a great excuse .  So, yeah, what happened is that I put the, uh, memory card into my mouth and then I chewed it .  The weird part, well actually I guess it's all weird parts, but the weirdest part is that when I bit down on the memory card, my first thought was, 'Huh .  That pretzel chip is very crunchy ! '  And so my natural reaction was attempt to chew it again .  Now it does not appear to be damaged .  There's a couple very small tooth marks, but it's toast .  I'm gonna let this frustration go in a minute, but just as an parting remark, I would like to note that it says right here on the memory card that it is in an 'extreme pro' memory card .   And look obviously, I shouldn't have chewed on my memory card, but I would argue that any non-food item that can be destroyed by human chewing, should not describe itself as 'extreme pro' . All right, let's go on the Tour Bus Bus Tour .  Hey, that's a palindrome .  Nope !  Nope, it's definitely not . So, the first thing you see when you come inside is the driver's seat .  That's where Brock lives .  Once you walk onto the bus, you come to the first seating area, which I like to think of as the office .  It's sort of a quiet part of the bus where everybody is always on their computer, answering e-mails, et cetera .   But the great thing about the office is that it's also sort of the dining room, due to its proximity to the kitchen .  By the way, there are the offending pretzel chips .  We really have everything you need in a kitchen: A microwave, a sink and a banana holder .  Past that, you get to the bathroom .  We have a very nicely acquainted, if somewhat small, bathroom .   But there's one very important rule about the bus bathroom, which is 'No Pooping in the Bus Bathroom' .  Not because of, like, moral concerns but y-you can't th-their tubes are too small .  Then you come to our refrigerator, which is mostly diet soda, La Croix, there's some beer, there's some baby carrots down there that nobody has ever eaten .   And then past the bathroom, we have the bedrooms .  Eight beautiful bunks .  Here's mine .  I'm sorry I didn't make my bed for you, but here are two cute puppies that I got at Target headquarters .  Hank's bunk is directly beneath mine .  He didn't make his bed either .   And then past the bedroom is the second seating area, which I like to think of as like the rec room, because it contains my Nintendo Switch .  So this is kind of the hangout area, because the engine is right back there, it's a little bit louder and there's more side-to-side motion, and when we first started on tour, everyone was really nauseated and nobody wanted to sit back there, but now we got our bus legs .   And a great thing about the bus is that there's so much storage, like, you know, that bag, which contains 850 plastic turtles .  In fact, there's plastic turtles everywhere .  We have plastic turtles in the shoe closet .   And we got a cute little turtle moose in the sharpie drawer .  Yes, we have a sharpie drawer .  We even got some Holden Turtle-fields in the microwave !  See, he's wearing his people-hunting hat .  We even got turtles with top hats in our popcorn and applesauce drawer .  It really is kind of a turtles all the way down situation .  Okay, Hank, I'm gonna go hide some signed plastic turtles here in Chamberlain, South Dakota .  We're leaving them everywhere we stop .  You can find hints to their location in my Instagram story .   And thanks again to everyone in Sioux Falls, who was so incredibly nice to me .  Sorry that I chewed on all of our memories .  Hank, I will see you on Friday .  Actually, I'll see you on, like, Thursday, but you know what I mean .                 
Good Morning Hank, it's Friday . So, our tour ended last night in Los Angeles .  Almost every night for the last month I've stood at the side of the stage during your set and watched you play because I love your music and I love watching you perform it and also because it brings back memories . I think about the first time I saw you play in front of a crowd, 45 people in Grand Rapids, Michigan almost a decade ago now .  Or I think about other nights: Edenborough, the first VidCon or 8/8/08 in Chicago when Harry Potter fans were singing your song so loudly, I could barely hear your voice over theirs .   And I think about how later that night in 2008 we hung out with Amy Krous Rosenthal, my friend who died earlier this year . Here's an Amy story I've been telling on tour: so back in 2005, Amy, who was a children's book writer and memoirist and professional Seeker of wonder in the world invited me to one of her readings and at that time I was in one of my periods of intense unwellness .  I felt like I was losing my whole self to intrusive thoughts spirals .   But this particular episode was accompanied by a chest-crushing depression . I found nothing enjoyable, I struggled to get out of bed, the usual .  It was at once absolutely excruciating and completely boring .  Susan Sontag wrote that  " Depression is melancholy minus it's charms "  . Somehow I managed to get to the event but I wasn't having much fun at it because I was alone and I was stuck with these invasive thoughts I couldn't stop having  and also Amy kept wanting people to participate in what she was doing and I hate audience participation .  It just makes me very nervous because 1) sometimes the audience doesn't deliver and also 2) I have paid for the show to be entertained not to be part of the entertainment .  So anyway, I was just in a terrible mood and then seemingly out of no where Amy started talking about how back in World War I all of these British soldiers who didn't understand why they were being asked to fight and die for tiny patches of ground far from their home started singing a song  to the tune of that New Year's Eve song  " Auld Lang Syne "  . They would sing:  " we're here because we're here because we're here because we're here "  .  It was this recursive lament and acknowledgement that there was no  " Why ?  " , that life in the trenches was meaninglessness all the way down .   But that night in 2005, Amy completely transformed that song for me without ever changing the words . Amy made me understand that we were here, meaning that we were together .   And even when we felt alone we weren't really because we were part of this vast and deeply interconnected Us .   And also that we were here, even if only for a little while .  And maybe we'll never know why we are here but we can still proclaim and hope that we are here .  That night Amy made me understand that hope is not foolish or idealistic or misguided .  Hope is true .  And I really believe that .  I really believe that hope is the correct response to the arc of history .  Hank, some years are longer than others and 2017 has been a long one for me . Its been good and bad and difficult and amazing and joyful and terrifying and very long .   But we're here .  We are here . Hank, I'll see you on Monday . J:  And now um Hank ?  William ? H: Yeah, I am extremely scared .  Is there someone with a laptop and an internet connection ?   :  " I am getting kinda tired of this .  Pre-publication media blitz .    .  Don't you know the whole world has already gone and reserved a copy at Amazon .  How many more books could you sell ?  Now give me my book or go to hell .  'cause I need Harry Potter like a Grindylow needs water and as Saturday approaches my need grows .   Accio Deathly Hallows .  Incendio book sells embargo It'll be like Phoenix tears on a broken nose .  Oh Accio Deathly Hallows .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Thursday . It's my last video of Pizzamas .  So the background of this story is that the couple months before my book Turtles All the Way Down came out was a pretty difficult time in my life . I was just completely overwhelmed with worry about what people would think about the book and whether I could handle the tour and publicity stuff, and also like how I was gonna talk about my own mental illness in the context of the book .  I was also really excited to have a book to share of course, but to be honest I was really, really scared .  Okay, so tuatara play a role in my book, and this is the New Zealand five cent piece, which I believe to be the only coin ever minted featuring a tuatara . This one's from 1972 but New Zealand minted these five cent pieces up until 2006 when they stopped because, you know, it was the rational thing to do .  Because you know, money exists to facilitate the exchange of goods and services, which five cent coins don't do very effectively .  Also it costs more than five cents per coin to mint five cent coins, making their existence especially astonishing, but what if I told you that some countries still mint coins worth one fifth of one nickel ?  Now I'm on a tangent . Point being, New Zealand stopped making these things over a decade ago .  Okay, so one night I found myself on eBay, trying to fight the creeping sense of dread with temporal things, which I presume is what drives 90% of eBay's traffic, and I thought, I wonder if I could buy some New Zealand five cent coins ?  Turns out I could .  I was able to buy 23 of them for a total of $22 US .  And then I started thinking if I could get a couple of hundred of these New Zealand five cent pieces, I could give them as gifts to everybody who leaves a gift for us on our tour .   But eBay didn't have nearly enough of them so I reached out to some Kiwi nerdfighters, and lots of people responded but in the end the project was spearheaded by a librarian and teacher named Meagan . Meagan wrote a letter to her local newspaper asking people if they had any five cent coins lying around because there was this American author who could use them .  The letter was printed online and then eventually in the newspaper, and people responded to it .  Like, a lot of people .  Most of the people who sent coins to Meagan had no idea who I was, but they sent them in anyway .  They came in three at a time or a hundred at a time . There were letters about how peoples' mothers had collected these coins or about how they were excited for their coins to go on an adventure .  I got letters in Maori talking about the importance of tuatara .  And I just want to pause to note the amount of effort involved in this .  First people had to read a letter in the paper, then they had to go find their coins, and then they had to pay at least a dollar in postage to mail them to Meagan, or else go to the trouble of dropping them off at the school where Meagan works, all for a stranger in America .  And they did this for no reason except to be kind .  They had no idea I was going through a difficult time in my life and they had no way of knowing how much their generosity would mean to me; that I would dissolve into tears of gratitude when thousands and thousands of tuatara coins arrived in the mail from Meagan . We gave many out on tour but I still have some .   And I will try to use them well, to give them out over the course of my life to those who might need a physical reminder of how kind people can be .   And how just as cruelty and mistrust can spread, so can kindness . To the Kiwis who made this happen, if you're watching, thank you .  I know that you will say it was just a little thing, but little things matter .  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good Morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  I have the flu and everything hurts and I am miserable and the world is a smoking pile of burnt garbage and today, I would like to try to cheer myself up by telling you two love stories .  Okay, so back in January of 2012 when my book The Fault In Our Stars came out, we went on tour for about a month and one of our first stops was this hotel ballroom outside of Washington, DC .  Before that show, a bunch of nerdfighters met up to hang out, two of whom were Sara and Luis .  Now, they'd never met each other before, but they really hit it off on this day and so they exchanged contact information and then eventually, they began dating .  They fell in love, acquired a dog named Scout and a cat named Boo and then decided to get married .   And they accomplished all of this while I was failing to write a new book .   But then, I did write a new book .   And we announced that we were going on tour and returning to Washington DC on a day that just happened to be two days before Luis and Sara's wedding .   And even though it was, of course, a very busy time for them, they managed to make it to The Turtles All The Way Down tour where we presented them with a KitchenAid mixer and a bottle of champagne .  Because, you know, that's what you need in a new marriage, love, a KitchenAid mixer and something bubbly to celebrate with .   And then they got married with lots of nerdfighter friends in attendance .  The wedding's dress code was and I'm quoting directly here  " Comfortable but dressy, rainbow colors !  "  which means it was almost certainly the greatest wedding ever .   And also, look at these nerdfighters !  Look at all of these wonderful people celebrating joy and love !  Behold hope and life and everything that is not influenza ! I just barfed between takes, so that's how my day's going .  Let's go on to the second love story . Okay, we're going back to 2012 .  So, that October, I visited a library in Cincinnati .   And a couple days before the event, a guy named Kenny tweeted me to ask if he should skip his business law class to come to my book reading and I said no, 'cause you know, school is more important, but he came anyway .   And he happened to sit next to someone named Amy .  They chatted before and after the show, exchanged contact information, and then eventually fell in love .  They got two dogs and three cats and bought a house together and then a couple days before our return to Cincinnati for the Turtles All The Way Down tour, Kenny wrote to me on Reddit .  He said  " I met my girlfriend five years ago at your book signing in Cincinnati .  I wanna propose now, but don't know how .  Any advice ?  " Congratulations Kenny and Amy !  Here's a couple pieces of unsolicited wedding advice:1) Nothing matters except whether you have an open bar, and 2) If at all possible, make your dress code  " Comfortable but dressy, rainbow colors !  " Now, I know what the vast majority of you are thinking  " Why hasn't this ever happened to me ?  "   And fair enough, but you have to remember, if you're lucky, this happens to you exactly once in your life .  Hank, we are surrounded by injustice, and we are also surrounded by microbes, and we must never become complacent in the face of these horrors, which is my way of saying,  " Remember to get your flu shot, "  but we are also surrounded by love .  Romantic love, friend love, family love, as the poet wrote over 2000 years ago,  " love conquers all and so we shall yield to it .  "  Thank you to Amy and Kenny and Sara and Luis, and everyone else who has shared their love with us . Hank, I am going to bed .  I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday, and I'm wearing a suit, which must mean it's time to talk about money . So since 2014, all the ad revenue from this YouTube channel has been evenly split between our charity, The Foundation to Decrease Worldsuck, and a fund that sponsors online educational content .   And through that fund we've been able to give grants to dozens of projects over the years .  I'll link to a few of the recent ones below .   But I mention this because submissions are now open for the next round of grants .  So if you know of a great edu creator who needs a few thousand dollars to become an even greater edu creator, or if you are such a person, there is a link to apply in the doobly-doo below . Quick pause to note that Hank and I don't do this because we're oh so noble or whatever, we do it because we can afford to .  We have other jobs that pay well .  Like for instance did you know that my new book Turtles all the Way Down is available in bookstores everywhere and the New York Times just named it one of their favourite books of the year .  Back to charity ! Right, so the other half of Vlogbrothers revenue goes to the Foundation to Decrease Worldsuck, which despite its silly name is a real charity .  It is federally sanctioned, your donations are tax deductable, all that stuff .   And despite the so called adpocalypse on YouTube and broader challenges faced by the advertising funded parts of the internet, Vlogbrothers has had a really good year .  The foundation has about 125 000$ in the bank right now, 15 000 more than we did at this time last year, largely thanks to the money we made helping distribute the excellent documentary Kedi .  But soon, we will have nothing in the bank because it will all be given away after the 11th annual Project for Awesome .  A 48-hour, livestreamed, charity extravaganza that begins at noon Eastern time on December 15th . During the 1st half of Project for Awesome we raise money for pre-selected charities, this year they are Save the Children, which we have worked with extensively over the last decade and also Last Mile Health, an amazing nonprofit that trains and pays community health workers in Liberia . During that part of the P4A, every dollar you donate will count as much more than 1 dollar because Hank and I will match every donation up to $250,000 .   And donors to both charities will also match your donation so your money will go a long way .   And then During the 2nd half of the Project for Awesome, we raise money chosen by Nerdfighteria and this is where you can help raise money and awareness for your favorite charities .  Make a video about a charity you think should receive a grant, upload it at noon Eastern time on December 15th and then people can vote for your charity at projectforawesome . com . Now, you might be thinking I don't have many subscribers, no point in me making a video .   But every year, charities get grants thanks to brilliant videos made by creators with a few dozen or even zero subscribers .  Making a P4A video is also an excellent way to support a charity even if you can't afford to donate to it .  As to how to make a P4A video, I highly recommend Hank's guide, which you can find in the dooblydoo below .  In the past, grants have gone to organizations from the Trevor Project to the Against Malaria Foundation .  It's all up to you, your videos and your votes . Over the past 5 years, the Project for Awesome has raised more than $5 . 8 million for charities and we're hoping to make this the best year yet- no pressure or anything .  .  .  little bit of pressure .  It occurs to me now that  " No pressure or anything- little bit of pressure "  is kind of my approach to everything . Ok, 4 last things: 1 I will be in comments to answer any questions you have .  2 let us know who you'd like to see as Project for Awesome Co-hosts .  Let us know if you have any perk ideas that would temp your dollars toward charity, and lastly, if bny some chance you would like to donate a lot of money to the Project for Awesome, like, say $1000 or more, and you want to join the matching donation fund, e-mail me with the subject line  " Matching "  at hankandjohn@gmail . com . Thank you, Hank . DFTBA, I'm going to take off this suit .  I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . Aggresively unscripted video incoming, so I'm in Los Angeles for reasons that will become clear shortly; and I'm thinking right now about storytelling .  So I have often said over the years that I believe books belong to their readers . Like I don't think it matters whether an author intended a symbolic resonance in their story as long as it's there, because we're not reading the author, we're reading the book .  Also, I don't think we should privilege the author's voice when it comes to matters outside the text, like for instance, what happens to characters after the story ends because I don't think that's up to the author, I think that's up to us as readers .  My books belong to me while I'm working on them and then when I'm finished, they don't . Except .  .  .  There are a couple problems with this world view: one, it's a little bit disingenuous to pretend that the author isn't present in the book at all, especially in our personality-driven culture, and especially if the author has chosen to have a public life by, for instance, participating in an eleven year long video blog conversation .   And then secondly, there's the problem that while the book belongs to the reader, the author has to make a lot of decisions on behalf of the book .  And that's true even after the book is published, which brings us to Los Angeles .  So I almost didn't sell the movie rights to my book  " The Fault in Our Stars "  partly because I've had some bad experiences in Hollywood, but partly because that book was really close to me .  A big part about what I enjoy about writing made-up stories is that they're kind of coded autobiography in which only I have the complete key to the code, and TFIOS not only contained parts of me that lots of people knew about, like my friendship with Esther Earl, but also parts of certain traumatic experiences I had never told anyone about . I mean, obviously it was exciting to imagine a movie of my book, but it was also scary to imagine some of that coded stuff being on a big screen for lots of people to watch .  Also, so much can go wrong !  I mean, they could have changed the whole plot, they could have made Hazel an eighty-four-year-old survivor of the Titanic . That's actually a pretty good idea for a movie, you have the story of the Titanic but it's around this frame of like an eighty-four-year-old lady who- this is not an original idea .  Anyway, in the end I sold the movie rights and I got so lucky .  I had no way of knowing that Elizabeth and Aaron at Fox 2000 would be the perfect stewards for that movie or that we would get amazing producers or the best possible screenwriters or an amazing cast and end up with a movie I really loved .  And then we got to do it again with Paper Towns, and then i thought  " well, that was a good run " , because Paper Towns didn't make as much money and also because I had decided to write this extremely quiet novel that takes place almost entirely inside of one person's head, which isn't the sort of thing that usually lends itself to film .  The big challenge for me in Turtles All The Way Down was whether I could use language to find some sort of direct form or expression for obsessive thoughts rather than only relying on metaphor .  I wanted to try to give readers not only a sense of what OCD is like, but maybe at least a glimpse into what it is, which is like a profoundly non-visual thing .  But as Isaac, who produced The Fault In Our Stars and Paper Towns pointed out to me, obsessive thoughts are also a non-linguistic experience, and that didn't stop me from writing the book .  So for the last two months we have been talking about it, is there a way to tell this story visually without relying on the old tropes that are usually associated with portrayals of OCD .   And today, I get to announce that working with the same studio and production company  that made The Fault in Our Stars and Paper Towns, we're gonna give it a try . That doesn't mean there will definitely be a movie, but it means that there might be one, so now is the time to begin inundating me with casting suggestions, because no one-ever-reads my Twitter bio .  I'm really excited for the opportunity, and also the challenge, of the Turtles All The Way Down movie and I hope you're excited too .  The book does belong to you but I had to make this decision on behalf of it: I really trust the people who are working on this . Thanks to everyone who has made the a number one New York Times bestseller for now seven weeks straight .   And if you care about the book please now that I will try to listen to you throughout this process .  Hank, DFTBA, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank !  It's Tuesday .  Today I'd like to share some good news with you because lately I've been feeling a little bit bleh .  You know, I'm kind of fed up with 2017 in general and I find large swathes of the social internet sort of disheartening and I just feel .  .  . bleh .   But once a year I like to look at some encouraging global trend lines so here are five ways that 2017 is actually kind of the best . First: charitable giving is at an all-time high even after adjusting for inflation, at least in the United States .  Secondly: it's possible that 2017 will be the second to last year that any human ever gets polio . The end of polio will be a huge global health victory, won by millions of donors and heroic volunteers .  So far this year there have been only 16 new cases of wild polio virus .  That's down from 37 last year .  For a little bit of context, when I was in high school there were over 100,000 cases of polio every year   .  Third: by some measures 2017 has been the best year in human history, although by many other measures it hasn't been, like if you measure, for instance, by Twitter .   But like, percentage of people living in absolute poverty: lowest it's ever been .  Percentage of kids in school: highest it's ever been .  Percentage of adults who can read: highest it's ever been !  Cancer death rates are down - not just in rich countries, but globally !   And also, this baby hippopotamus was born . Of course, there are ways in which the world is getting worse .  In the US, for instance, opioid abuse is driving a huge increase in death by drug overdose .  South Sudan is experiencing a famine - the world's first official famine since 2012 - and several other countries are on the brink of famine .  Horrific ethnic cleansing in Myanmar has killed many people, and forced hundreds of thousands more from their homes . There are many tragedies that demand better responses from governments and individuals, but even so, on average the human population is healthier, more prosperous, and better educated than it ever has been .  Okay, fourth: babies !  Babies are amazing, and they are being born everyday, and in 2017 a particular amazing baby named Orin learned how to crawl .  Also, babies have never been as healthy or as likely to survive into adulthood as they are in 2017 . To understand how dramatically things are improving let's look at Liberia .  So back in 1995, when I graduated from high school, 24% of all babies born in Liberia died before the age of five .  Today it is below 7% !  Now that is still way too high, but it has dropped by more than 2/3 in just 22 years . Now you might be saying  " Oh buy population growth is out of control " , except no - like everywhere else in the world, in Liberia when healthcare access improves, and child mortality goes down, families choose to have fewer children .  Here's what the fertility rate looks like from 1995 . So these changes are profound, but I should say that they are neither natural nor inevitable .  Like, this is happening because of investments we are making as a species, in research, in healthcare systems, and in training and paying healthcare workers .  For most of human history there was no expectation that over time lives would get healthier or food more abundant, because that's not what happened over time . In can be hard to process just how dramatic these changes are, so for a little bit of context, in the year my mother was born the child mortality rate in Portugal was about 9% .  In 2017, no country on earth will have a child mortality rate that high   . Now lots of organizations are working on keeping this progress going, but I want to highlight 2: Save the Children, which helps kids and families from refugee camps to remote villages worldwide, and Last Mile Health, which trains and employs community health workers in Liberia . Which brings me to my fifth bit on good news: The Project for Awesome starts this Friday at noon EST !  That's when you should upload your video about a charity you care about   .   But the fundraiser for the Project For Awesome begins midnight tonight, and during this first half of the Project For Awesome we're raising money for Save The Children and Last Mile Health . Because of matching donations, every dollar you donate will count as 4 dollars .   And also, you can get amazing perks !  Like tuatara coins, and deleted scenes from my book Turtles All the Way Down, and a personalized self care bunny .  And some of those perks are limited in quantity, so no pressure, em dash, little bit of pressure .  .  . If it's passed midnight you can find a link to the fundraiser at projectforawesome . com, or in the doobly-doo below . Hank !  I will see you and the rest of Nerdfighteria at noon eastern time, this Friday, for the 48 hour Project For Awesome livestream . DFTBA .                 
Good Morning Hank it's Tuesday and I AM TIRED .  I don't mean just physically tired, although I am that, I mean like metaphysically tired . I feel like my brain and also my voice are kind of limping to the finish line of 2017 .   This is eventually going to be a happy and celebratory video but first I have to tell you what's wrong with me . Some of it is just my mental health problem, too much work and travel and not enough sleep and exercise are bad for my OCD .   But there are also larger forces at work like lately I feel compelled to scroll through my social media feeds for hours on end even though the scrolling generally makes me feel worse . Because of my mental illness I've often felt like a passenger in my own consciousness with no sovereignty over the thoughts that are called mine .   And lately scrolling through the social internet I tend to feel like a passenger in the larger consciousness .  As if history isn't something that we make together but instead is something that is happening to us . James Joyce called history  " a nightmare from which I am trying to awake "  and the history around us does often feel like a nightmare to me . I don't know if this is true for other people but I often feel powerless in the face of injustice, and inequality, and violence, and also social and political structures that don't just allow for oppression but in some cases actively encourage it . I mean I'm just one person and I tire easily and I feel like I can't do anything except scroll .  But that is a lie and this weekend I was reminded that it's a lie when thousands of people came together from all over the world for the eleventh annual Project for Awesome, which as I'm recording this has raised almost 2 million dollars for charity . By the way you can still donate until midnight tonight at projectforawesome . com/donate where there are still great perks available including New Zealand nickels, and Project for Awesome socks, and signed copies of my book Turtles All the way Down .  And also at DFTBA . com you can get this amazing Project for Awesome t-shirt, all proceeds go to charity .  But whether you participated in the Project for Awesome by donating, or making a Project for Awesome video, or by commenting, or by joining us in the Live stream, Thank You . Thank you for reminding me that the social internet is not only about passive scrolling .  It's also about hearing stories we wouldn't otherwise hear and becoming better informed, and making deeper connections with each other . You reminded me that social internet can be a platform for activism and fundraising that truly does make the world suck less .  And along the way you reminded me of something else, it's not just that we as individuals CAN change the world, we ARE changing the world every day, each of us through the choices we make . The world isn't somehow separate from our actions, and passions, and beliefs .  The world is made out of our actions, and passions, and beliefs .  During the first half of Project for Awesome this year we raised money for two great organizations, Save the Children and Last Mile Health .   And the CEO of Last Mile Health, Raj Panjabi who grew up in Liberia, share with us something his father often told him  " No condition is permanent "   Not the good conditions and not the bad ones . Inequality of access to healthcare and educational opportunities are not permanent conditions, we know this because we've seen dramatic reductions around the world .  But political and social stability also aren't permanent conditions, nor is peace or progress .  No condition is permanent and while there are big forces acting upon and within us, we are not mere passengers in history .  The human story isn't something we're scrolling through, it's something we're part of .  Thanks for reminding me of that . Hank I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank .  It's Tuesday .  So, at the end of every year I write myself two letters; one to the me from the past who just survived the year, and one to the me from the future who's going to be living in next year .   And I look at the successes and failures and joys and heartbreaks of the last year and then make goals for next year .  This is a thing that was suggested by my therapist, and initially, I responded to it with the same suspicion I reserve for all therapy things .  But actually, I've found it incredibly helpful because, first, it offers an opportunity for reflection, and I feel like there aren't enough of those in our culture right now .  It also gives you an opportunity to think about what from 2017 you want to bring in to 2018, and what you want to leave behind .  So today I thought I would write kind of an open, public version of that letter to myself in the hopes of improving accountability called 'Leave it in 2017 ! ' Alright, listen up future me, there's a few things that current me is going to recommend you leave behind in 2017, beginning with 'the feed' .  You know what I'm talking about, the fact that you spend hours every day passively scrolling through information on the internet that does not leave you better informed or happier .  I'm not saying that the social internet is inherently good or bad, I'm saying that right now it's bad for you, so you're gonna 'Leave it in 2017 ! ' At least for a few months until your resolve begins to crack because the social media algorithms have so effectively hacked your dopamine receptors .  Slight tangent, but the reasons your social media feeds aren't making you happier or better informed is that they're not trying to .  The algorithms are designed to keep you scrolling, to maximize the amount of time you spend on the site and, ergo, the number of ad impressions you provide, and the algorithms are very good at that .   But on the other hand John, you have a habit of believing that something, say the social internet, for instance, is going to be the solution to all of humanity's problems, and then when it fails to deliver, you have a habit of over-correcting and announcing that, for instance, 'The social internet is nothing but a pile of burnt garbage' .  But, both those extremes are completely invalid so we are leaving those wild swings behind in 2017 as well and instead, embracing something called nuance .  Speaking of wild swings, let's talk about sports .  So, sports are great, but with AFC Wimbledon currently in the League One relegation zone, and Liverpool tossing away 3-0 leads like Luke Skywalker chucking light sabers, too much of your mental well-being depends upon the sporting endeavors of 11 mostly 20-something strangers who live 5000 miles away from you .  I'm not saying don't care, I'm saying don't shout 'Everything is ruined, all your dreams will die ! ' at the television in front of your children .  Alright, four more things you're leaving in 2017:One - Prioritising your career over your sanity .  That's dumb !  Stop doing that . Second - drinking more than two La Croix per day .  I mean, La Croix is great, but show some restraint !  Three - Being snarky in the comments when you feel the urge to provoke, or to respond to trolling, or to meet hostility with hostility .  Just stop !  And lastly, somewhat related, let's leave in 2017 the notion that the avatar is the person, and instead try to remember that everyone we encounter online and off is fighting battles that we don't know about .  There's also lots I want to keep from 2017: the life-changing magic of regular exercise, the value of real-life events to celebrate usually virtual communities, and the reminders of why I love not only writing, but also sharing my writing even if it's a smidge terrifying . I'd love to know in comments what you're going to hold on to from 2017, and also what you're going to leave behind . Hank !  Happy New Year .  I will see you on Friday .                  
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . Happy twenty eighteen !  I really wanna bring it in twenty eighteen, like that's my main goal for the year, but in order to do that, I have to decide like, you know, what to bring .  So I wanna talk about three things I wanna help bring into the world this year, because you know if you promise to do something and then people have heard that promise, it's more likely that you'll actually do it . First, in twenty eighteen, I wanna collaborate with my wife to make at least four episodes of a new YouTube series called  " cooking history "  to be uploaded at least initially here on the Vlogbrothers channel .  My wife, Sarah, produces an amazing channel with PBS Digital called  " The Art Assignment " and one of her series over there is called  " Art Cooking "  where she will make, for instance, a huge craw-fish tower that Salvador Dali once made, while also talking about his life and work .  It's such a brilliant series because you learn about food and cooking while also learning about art .  Link below, by the way . Right, so this year we're gonna try to do the same thing with history, attempting recipes from different periods of history while learning about that period and also how food shaped history .  So we'll consider, for instance, what French bread tasted like in the run up to the 1789 bread riots that presaged the French Revolution .  We'll also attempt to make porridge from thirty-seven hundred years ago .  If you have any other ideas, please leave them in comments . Ok, thing number 2, I wanna make at least ten episodes in 2018 of a new podcast called  " The Anthropocene Reviewed " , where I review different aspects of the human-centered planet .  This started as a joke between Hank and me, but I have decided to actually do it .  The first episode reviews Canada geese, the animal, and Diet Dr .  Pepper . , the soda .  Here is a little excerpt:  " The man who popularized America's greatest soft drink was named Woodrow Wilson Clemens but he preferred to be called Foots, a nickname that he picked up in high school due to his oddly shaped toes .  Foots took Dr .  Pepper from a regional brand to a global juggernaut because he understood exactly what made Dr .  Pepper significant .   " I've always maintained, "  he said,  " you cannot tell anyone what Dr .  Pepper tastes like, because it's so different .  It's not an apple, it's not an orange, it's not a strawberry, it's not a root beer, it's not even a cola .  "  Cola, after all, is derived from cocoa leaves and vanilla, two real-world flavors .  Sprite has that lemon-line taste, purple soda is ostensibly grape flavored .   But Dr .  Pepper has no real-world analogue .  In fact, U . S .  trademark courts have tackled this issue, categorizing Dr .  Pepper and its knockoffs as pepper sodas, although they contain no pepper, and the 'pepper' in Dr .  Pepper refers not to the spice, but either to someone's actual name or else to 'pep', the feeling that Dr .  Pepper supposedly fills you with .  It's the only category of soda named not for what it tastes like, but instead for how it makes you feel .  " Get ready to know a lot about Diet Dr .  Pepper !  The first episode of The Anthropocene Reviewed will hopefully be up by the end of January .  Okay, lastly, an idea that is not yet well-formulated and may not launch till later in 2018, if at all, I would like to do another podcast because, you know, the world doesn't have enough of them, about an old book that nobody reads anymore .  The book I'm thinking of at the moment, although this may change, is Tom Grogan by Francis Hopkinson Smith, which is a book about an Irish-American woman who adopts the name Tom Grogan from her maybe dead husband and then becomes a successful dock worker .  It's a weird book and what's weirder is that it was the best-selling novel in the entire United States in 1896 and its author was wildly famous .   But today, it's been out of print for many decades and is almost entirely forgotten .  P . S . : The author of that book, Francis Hopkinson Smith, also designed and built the base of the Statue of Liberty .  So maybe that book, maybe another one, but some book that nobody reads anymore from a deeply polarized time in American history that might have some relevance for us . So that's it .  I really want to spend this year trying new things while also not neglecting the things I currently do .  It's nerve-wrecking to talk about goals you haven't accomplished yet, but I also think it can help increase accountability .  So if you have a moment and have any feedback on any of my ideas, please let me know because there's still time to change all of them .   But also if you want, maybe leave a goal of your own in comments so that, if nothing else, you can return to that comment in 12 months and be like,  " Hey !  I did that thing I said I was going to do .  " Hank, I'm going to go back to writing about the astonishing history of Diet Dr .  Pepper now .  Happy new year !  I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  It's hard to get people on the internet to agree about anything .  Like, it's hard to get them to agree about complicated subjects like how to pay for and deliver health care, and also it's hard to get them to agree about tiny things, like whether to call a gif a 'Jif' .  But the one thing everyone on the internet seems to agree on at the moment is that the internet kind of sucks .  Like Samual Ashworth wrote of Twitter,  " The thing about Twitter is that no one who uses it needs an explanation of why it is the worst .  It is an endlessly self-renewing bonfire of outrage and confusion .  "   And I think that's true not only for Twitter but also for YouTube and Facebook and Reddit and so on .  It's hard to get reliable news online, and the news cycle moves so quickly that it's difficult to follow complicated stories over time .   And the architecture of the social internet often seems to lift up the loudest and most divisive voices over more cautious and nuanced ones .  Also lots of undeserving creators and creations reach large audiences and then the backlash to those creators and creations is so hyper-intense that it creates a backlash to the backlash, and then a backlash to the backlash to the backlash, ad infinitum . First, I think it's worth noting that a lot of this isn't new .  Like, the internet has always sucked, or at least we've always felt like it sucked .  I mean way back in 1995, the very first joke I made on my very first website was that the internet was made out of narcissism, cat pictures, and pornography .  The more things change, but the point is whatever golden age of internet discourse people hearken back to is inevitably mis-remembered .  There's a lot I don't like about today's YouTube, but that was also true in 2007 and 2010 and 2012 when the running joke online was that the only place on the internet worse than Yahoo Answers was YouTube comments . Admittedly, it sometimes feels like YouTube comments never really got better so much as the rest of the internet got worse, but still, we shouldn't idealize the past .  There have always been powerful people who misuse that power and there have always been people who feel powerless and vengeful and use the cloak of anonymity to attack others .  But none of that means that we should have to accept an internet that sucks .  Look, this is a complicated problem and I am not going to solve it in a YouTube video .  I do think, however, that we need to look at the difference between our goals as a species and the goals of the private companies that host so much of our public discourse . Alright, imagine you work at a zoo and someone comes up to you and says,  " I'll give you $1,000 every time you get that lion to roar .  " Maybe at first you teach the lion that, when it roars, it gets extra food .   But then over time, you start to notice that the lion roars whenever it sees something weird, so you start to show it lots of surprising information .  You also might notice that lions roar when they feel threatened, but they learned pretty quickly that your threats were empty, so you'd have to vary them up .  You'd have to find a million different ways to make the lions feel like their lives were in danger, or their families were about to be broken up, or their territory was threatened .  Twitter is not structured to make us better informed or happier, it is structured to keep us on Twitter .  The same is true for Facebook and Netflix and Hulu and YouTube and cable news .  All of these companies want as much of our attention as they can get, because that is how they make money, which is what they exist to do . I don't buy the argument that this makes corporations or the people who work at them  " evil " , but I do think that we need to understand what corporations want, so that we can know how best to tell them what we want . They want our attention and it is very hard to turn down the feast that they lay before us, but if we refuse to roar on cue, they will notice, and they will change . Algorithms and the companies that control them are big and powerful, but in the end, each of us still chooses what we watch and listen to and read .  Your attention is powerful, and it is yours . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good Morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  It's Question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real nerdfighters .  Let's get right to it; what are you reading ? Well, I just read an amazing book by a first-time novelist named Hank Green .  I don't want to say anything more until it's available for pre-order, but wow, it's like properly brilliant !   And now I'm reading An Introduction to Global Health Delivery, which is quite different from Hank's book, but also excellent .  What's your favorite song at the moment ? So my kids have discovered that their uncle Hank is a musician whose songs you can listen to on Spotify and they won't stop listening to him .  I've probably heard This Isn't Hogwarts 10,000 times in the last two weeks .   And I have to say, it's pretty darn good .  Is this becoming a Hank Green appreciation vlog ?  No more Hank for the rest of the video ! Thoughts on Brexit and pears ? Now that is a Question Tuesday question .  So sometimes I'll be at the grocery store and I'll think,  " You know what future me will like to eat ?  Pears .  A ton of pears .  "   And so I'll buy a bunch of pears .   And then later, when I am future me, I'll open up the refrigerator and think,  " Oh, I really wish I hadn't gotten these pears .  I wish I could just return them and get my money back, because I completely misapprehended my appetite for pears !  "   But you can't return pears .  Speaking of which, pears or apples ? Mm, I don't know if we're still talking about Brexit, but regardless, apples . In Turtles All the Way Down, how can Daisy say that Attack of the Clones is the most underrated Star Wars movie ?  That's the stupidest thing I've ever heard . I'm gonna try not to respond to hostility with hostility here, but look, Daisy's wrong about a lot of things, but she is right about this .  Empire Strikes Back - correctly rated as the best Star Wars movie .  A New Hope - also excellent !  Return of the Jedi is, if anything, slightly overrated . Rogue One and the Force Awakens are both rated correctly .  The Phantom Menace is correctly rated as the worst !  Revenge of the Sith - widely and appropriately believed to be the best of the prequels .  Leaving Attack of the Clones as the only and ergo most underrated Star Wars movie . Hey John, you working on anything new ? Yeah, I've got a new series over at Hankgames called John Green solves your problems; in which I play FIFA while solving people's problems .  So far I've solved the problem of somebody who couldn't reach the spot on their back that itched and someone else whose taste was too expensive of their budget .   But over the course of many episodes, I'm hoping, you know, to solve all of the problems . Hey, which charities won the Project for Awesome money ? These 25 charities will all be getting grants from this year's Project for Awesome .  Congratulations to them and thank you again to everyone who donated ! How do you deal with stress ? Poorly . Favorite Winona Ryder movie ? Heathers . Are you having a midlife crisis yet ? Mm .  .  .  Maybe a little bit . How important is nature to you ? I think the thing to remember is that we are nature just as much as like birds and trees are, so very important . Why isn't there any Turtles All the Way Down merch ? There is !  At dftba . com you can find amazing posters and also a wonderful pencil set with quotes from the book . Favorite Marvel character ? Probably the Hulk . Favorite DC character ? Right now, probably Paul Manafort .  I cannot look away from the Paul Manafort story line . Are you upset about this ? Nah, I'm just glad my books can be useful . When did you get a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame ? I didn't .  That star belongs to the John Green who won five Oscars, not me, who once won an MTV movie award . What is the most likely way for humans to go extinct ? This is a question I spend a fair amount of time thinking about .  I think disease is still most likely, followed by some kind of A . I .  or post-human species rendering us obsolete, followed by an extinction level war .  Basically I still think it's most likely that microorganisms will be our undoing, but I think that there is a growing possibility that we will be our own undoing . How do you stop worrying about not living your life to the fullest ? Well, I don't know how to stop worrying, but I do think that the idea of living your life to the fullest is a little flawed .  Like why is jumping out of an airplane inherently better than reading a book ?  Or why is living a life that looks good on Instagram inherently more meaningful than a life lived quietly ? I just don't buy it .  Like Eudora Welty wrote,  " A sheltered life can be a daring life as well .  For all serious daring starts from within .  "  So live your life .  Hank, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday, In your video last week you mentioned this New Yorker profile of Partners in Health co-founder Ophelia, and ever since reading it, I've been thinking about Ebola .  Remember Ebola ?  An outbreak of the virus in 2014 killed over 10,000 people and to quote some 2014 headlines:  " Ebola was a global health crisis, "   " A pandemic, "  and above all  " An emergency .  "   And I think in general, humans are quite good at responding to emergencies .  We rally together in the immediate wake of disasters, we raise money, we lobby our governments- but we really struggle when it comes to long-term solutions to long-term problems .  Back in 2014, the worlds responded to the Ebola emergency with big healthcare investments in the nations affected by the outbreak: Guinea, Sierra Leone, and Liberia .   And then, to quote The New Yorker article  " As soon as Ebola appeared to be stabilized, the money evaporated .  "  The influx of aid in 2014, did help end the Ebola crisis, but it did very little to address the long-term crisis .  When the outbreak began, Sierra Leone - a nation of over seven million people - had fewer than 200 doctors .   And over 5% of them died of Ebola in 2014 .  For context, my home state of Indiana - which has a slightly smaller population than Sierra Leone - has over 16,000 practicing physicians .  Short-term aid did not fix that problem .  Sierra Leone still has far too few health workers who are paid far too little .   And facilities are hugely inadequate, more than half of the public hospitals in Sierra Leone lack running water and drugs and other supplies are often out of stock .   And all of that has real catastrophic consequences .  9% of kids born in Sierra Leone will die before they're five .  I want to say here that I'm totally unconvinced by the argument that these problems are not our problems or that the inadequacies of Sierra Leone's health care system should be fixed entirely within Sierra Leone .  I just think that ignores so much complexity and also so much history .  The history of slavery and colonialism, but also much more recently; Sierra Leone was forced for decades to spend less than five dollars per person per year on health care by misguided global loan regulations .   And we also can't ignore how deeply interconnected and interdependent we are as a species .  Like when inadequate stocks of drugs and lack of healthcare facilities means that people's tuberculosis treatment gets interrupted .  The multi drug-resistant tuberculosis that spreads is not only a problem for Sierra Leone .  As Ophelia Dahl put it:  " Ebola was acute on chronic .  "  That's what they call it when someone has smokers lung and then suddenly something precipitous happens like pneumonia .  As long as the world fails to meet basic health care needs, we will continue to experience  " acute on chronic "  emergencies .  In fact, in Sierra Leone in 2014, twice as many people died of tuberculosis as died of Ebola .   And almost all of those TB deaths were preventable .   But training and paying more health care workers, improving facilities, spending money on ongoing restocking of drugs - all of these require long-term investments . These are changes we chart over years and decades, not over days and weeks, but we can see changes like life expectancy in Sierra Leone is low but it's rising .  the health care system is woefully underfunded but it is nonetheless better than 10 or 20 or 50 years ago .  Now, none of this is to say that we should stop responding to emergencies .  Like, let's definitely stay good at that, or even try to get better at it .  To me this is not an either/or proposition, it's a both/and proposition .  Let's both try to respond to emergencies and try to focus more attention and resources on long-term problems and the long-term solutions they demand .  There's a link below to that article about Ophelia Dahl and Partners in Health, it really is fascinating .  By the way, for those who don't know, Nerdfighteria has donated more than a million dollars in total over the last several years to Partners in Health .  I think it's helpful to understand how far that money has gone .  .  .  but also how far we still have to go .  Frankly, it's infuriating to think about the hospitals that have had to close since the Ebola money dried up; and the lives that have ended as a result .  I guess we can only hope that these outrages - and all outrages spark empathy and commitment .  .  .  instead of fear and resignation .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .   
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday .  Greetings from the floor of a hotel room in New York City .    Congratulations on Hank's Book   Congratulations on your book !  It is just so, so brilliant .  It really is the best book I've read about what now feels like, and it's also like a rip-roaring adventure story .    Advice   To be honest, when you first told me you were writing a book, part of me was like,  " I'm gonna have to be the big brother in this situation, advising him on writing and stuff .   But in the end, I can offer you no writing advice at all, only congratulations, in part because our styles are so different .  For instance, your book, like, has a proper plot .    Improve your Self-Promotion    But, but Hank, you have to improve your self-promotion .  I mean, you made a three minute and forty seven second video about your book in which you failed to mention the title of your book .  Which, by the way, is An Absolutely Remarkable Thing .  It comes out on September 25th, and is available for pre-order now .    Say it with me Hank, An Absolutely Remarkable Thing comes out on September 25th, and is available for pre-order now .  When you are talking about your new book, even if you are talking to your spouse, or your cat, always include those three pieces of information: title, pub date, available for pre-order now .    Plot of An Absolutely Remarkable Thing   Also, you didn't talk much about the plot of the book, and I definitely understand the urge to avoid spoilers, but the premise is so, so good .      All right, check this out: A 23 year old graphic designer is walking home from a very late night at work when she happens across a ten-foot tall, seemingly immovable sculpture of, like, a samurai warrior .  She names the sculpture Carl in a YouTube video she makes with her friend, and then wakes up the next morning wildly famous, in part because the YouTube video was charming and funny, and in part because fifty other Carls have appeared all over Earth at exactly the same time .     And from there, it just gets amazing .  It is the story of one woman's ascent - or possibly descent - into fame and punditry and an exploration of how humans behave when faced with big, shared challenges .    Good Person & Questions   Now, Hank, I don't want to criticize your promo game too much, because you are a good person who understandably doesn't want to bombard our audience with marketing .   But this isn't like an ad for Squarespace, which, by the way, is your number one one-stop shop for websites like hankgreen . com .  You've been working on this book for years and people want to know about it .  Obviously vlogbrothers shouldn't become like a BookTube channel devoted only to one book, but do let us know when, like, there's a cover .  God, I cannot wait for the cover !  Also, are you going on tour ?   And can I come ?   And can we have a bus again ?    To Sign or Not to Sign Pre-orders   Okay, lastly - and maybe most importantly - in your announcement video you said this:  " Not all pre-orders will be signed .  John set unrealistic expectations .  "   All right, I get that only someone who finds arguably  pathological joy in repetitive tasks would sign their name 200,000 times, but that doesn't mean that you should sign zero pre-orders .    Pizza John Break   So yeah, we'll figure something out .  Sorry, I had to go out to get a piece of pizza .  Let's just resume filming at the hotel room .    Final Congratulations   Hank, congratulations again on a great book .  I am so excited for the world to read it and for the important conversations that will emerge from it .    Promotion of John's Podcast    But before I go, I have to do a bit of self-promo: the first episode of my new podcast, The Anthropocene Reviewed, is out now and available for your listening pleasure .  The Anthropocene Reviewed is a podcast where I review different facets of the human-centered planet on a five-star scale .  The first episode is about Canada geese, a bird species that nearly went extinct, and Diet Dr .  Pepper, a zero calorie soda popularized by a man named Foots .      It's been really fun to work on something personal and also a little weird .  I hope you like it .  There are links in the dooblydoo below .    Conclusion, See You On Friday   Hank, An Absolutely Remarkable Thing comes out September 25th and is available for pre-order now .  I will see you on Friday .  
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . I've been thinking a lot about bread .  Specifically about what bread tasted like right before the women's march on Versais in 1789, in which a group of French women who were, depending on your perspective, either protesting or rioting besieged the king's palace in Versais and forced him and his family to return to Paris . It was a big moment in the French Revolution and it was caused, in part, by bread .  Mostly the price of bread, which had risen dramatically due to failed harvests and bad monetary policy, but also the quality of bread, which always declined in hard times . Like the French peasant bread of 1789 often included lots of chaff, the indigestible husks surrounding the edible kernel of grain in wheat .   But it was also common to bulk up wheat or rye or buckwheat dough with sawdust or hay or even animal dung .  And at the time, bread wasn't just like a staple of the French diet .  For most people, it was the diet .  Like the average French adult ate 2-3 pounds of bread per day every day .  And while they did sometimes have access to other foods, many days, possibly most days, it was just bread .  Sawdusty, possibly animal poopy bread . I've been reading about this, partially for the cooking history videos that Sarah and I are going to make later in the year, and partly because-I don't know, I just fall down research rabbit holes .  .  . Like I'm reading one book, and then other, and pretty soon I'm looking up 5,000 year old recipes for grain paste and my kids are like,  " Dad, can you make breakfast ?  "  and I'm like,  " Oh my god, it's morning ?  " Anyway, the thing that gets me about bread is not how shockingly horrible it used to be, it's how recently it was shockingly horrible .  Like you know Halley's Comet ?    It's this comet that is visible from Earth every 75ish years . So like a good human lifetime .  The last time Haley was visible from Earth in 1986, I was 8 .  The time before that was 1910 .   And the time before that, Luis XVI's cousin Philippe I was King of France, having  become King after the so-called Second French Revolution which was caused, in part, by, you guessed it, failed harvests and rising bread prices . Put it another way, we are two human lifetimes removed from the US Civil War and only three removed from a time when not just the poorest people, but most people, were eating sawdust bread in France . Of course, this doesn't mean that we've achieved some great victory that we ought to celebrate or anything, there's still lots of people who don't get adequate nutrition .   And not only in impoverished countries, but also in wealthy ones .  But it does mean that we can make progress .   And when you look at history through the lenses of lifetimes, both the pace of change and the nature of change are, to me, really encouraging .  And frankly, I could use some encouragement in these strange times because I find that despair mostly just makes me complacent .  Like, 'oh there's nothing to be done about this horror or that horror, it's just hte nature of things . 'On the other hand, feeling like progress is inevitable also makes me complacent .  Like, 'oh I can just sit back and watch rising grain yields feed the world and Elon Musk fix climate change and disease cure itself . ' But reading history fills me with the uncomfortable but productive feeling that better human lives are possible, but not guaranteed . Of course, it's overly simplistic to say that the women who led the march on Versais brought about a freer, more equitable, less hungry France .  The French Revolution, like so many revolutions, failed to achieve many of its ambitions . In my experience anyway, the changes we seek in the world almost always prove harder to make than we first think they'll be .  But looking at history in lifetimes shows us that change can and does happen anyway .  Something I'm reminded of every time I bite into a nice, sawdust-free slice of bread . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . So over at CrashCourse, Adrian Hill has just started hosting a great new series on statistics, and in a recent episode called  " Mathematical Thinking, "  she helped me understand the difference between big numbers . In general, humans are notoriously bad at big numbers .  Like, I don't really understand the difference between a billion and a trillion, because they're both, like, a lot .  So how am I to process the fact that, for instance, there are over one hundred trillion microorganisms currently living in or on my body ? Poorly, that's how I'm gonna process it, on every level .  But, right, this is one of the things that makes government budgets, for instance, so notoriously difficult to parse .  Like the U . S .  spends, by the broadest definition, around fifty billion dollars a year in foreign aid, which is a LOT of money, but it's also just over 1% of the federal budget . Here's another big number: 4 . 6 billion dollars .  That's how much the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation donated in 2016 .  That's a lot of money, but it also isn't .  If you gave every American an equal slice of that 4 . 6 billion dollars, we'd each get about 13 bucks . So there's a lot that 4 . 6 billion dollars a year can't buy .  For instance, it can't pay for enough teachers to serve all the kids who are getting inadequate instruction worldwide .  It can't pay for everyone to have access to primary healthcare .   And according to current market rates, 4 . 6 billion dollars will only buy you 32 . 3 Phillipe Countinhos . I'm getting sidetracked by Liverpool, but, right, every year Melinda and Bill Gates release an annual letter, which Hank and I have been following for several years now .   And this year, the letter takes the form of answering ten tough questions they get . They range from  " Won't saving kids' lives lead to overpopulation ?  " , which is actually an easy one to answer - no, it won't - to more complicated questions like  " Why don't you spend more money in the United States ?  "  and  " How has Donald Trump affected your work ?  "  and  " Is it fair that you have so much influence ?  " It's always worth reading the annual letter; there is a link in the doobly-doo below .   But I emerged from it with another difficult question: If 4 . 6 billion dollars a year isn't enough to solve the world's biggest problems, then are we just, like .  .  .  completely screwed ?   I actually got to ask Bill Gates about this on a phone call a couple weeks ago, and the first thing he pointed out to me is that not every dollar spent has equal impact . Gates:  " Say a piece of wealth is a rounding error percentage of the global economy, or global wealth .  Why can in some cases - like Green Revoluion - a small amount of money have this big effect ?  " Quick definition: The Green Revolution was a huge increase in agricultural yields due to better irrigation techniques, better fertilizers, and better seeds .  By the late 1960's, it had helped increase the number of available calories per person by 25% and helped decrease the number of people dying from malnutrition worldwide . Okay, back to the quote . Gates: There are two things that allow magnification: one is the invention of a new tool - so a magic seed, a magic vaccine .  The second is a system of delivery .  Systems of activity - like good primary health care, educating farmers - and then tools .  Those are the two things that are so disproportionate .  "   And on this, I completely agree .  Breakthrough technologies can be absolutely transformational, and investing in better systems can be disproportionately effective because those systems can continue to produce good results over time, even after you stopped funding them . This is why the Gates Foundation is investing in better toilets and new vaccines, but also in primary healthcare systems . It's also why, when spent well, the U . S . 's foreign aid budget actually can go a really long way .  Like, beginning during the George W .  Bush presidency, the U . S .  invested a few billion dollars a year to improve access to and availability of AIDS treatment in the developing world .  That program had lots of flaws, for one thing it focused way too much on abstinence-only strategies, but nonetheless, a 2009 study found that it saved 1 . 2 million lives . You probably don't have a billion dollars, but I believe that how each of use chooses to use our resources shapes the world we end up sharing .   And that goes for how we spend our money, but also the resources of our attention and our time . Here's another big number that at the same time is very small: twenty-six thousand ninety-seven .  That's how many days the average human born today will live to see .  Let's make them count . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday So one night about 15 years ago, I went to a bar in Chicago and, through a mutual friend, I made the acquaintance of a mathematician named Daniel Biss .  I was surprised by how much I enjoyed talking to Daniel that evening, on account of how throughout my life I had worked pretty hard to avoid interactions with professional mathematicians .  Like I chose the college I attended in part because you didn't have to take math to graduate Also it's hard to make friends in adulthood and I've never been good at it, but as Daniel and I played an exceptionally poor game of pool that night I had the feeling that I was making a friend .   And it turns out, I was right .  Daniel and I have now been friends from within a third of our lives .  He is the smartest person I have ever known .  He was 25 when we met and had already gotten his PhD in math from MIT, and was working as a professor at the University of Chicago, but he has never treated me as anything other than an intellectual equal .  And we remained close throughout big changes in our lives .  I met Sarah and moved to New York and then eventually Indianapolis and became a dad .  Daniel fell in love with a historian and they got married and moved to the suburbs of Chicago and had two beautiful kids . Everything was good and normal and then one day Daniel called me with the worst idea I had ever heard in my entire life, which was that he wanted to leave his very good job at the University of Chicago and run for a seat in the Illinois State House of Representatives This seemed like a bad idea to me first because Daniel is, like, nerdy .  In my mind politicians were slick and wore tailored suits and, damn, I don't know that Daniel owned a suit .  Sarah and I were in the audience for Daniel's campaign announcement, and what may have been his first-ever campaign speech .   And while his eloquence and intelligence were obvious, as I was driving home I couldn't help but think that Daniel- how do i phrased this gently ?  Might eventually find his way back to abstract mathematics And indeed while Daniel's 2008 race for state rep was agonizingly close, he lost .   But he ran again in 2010 and won and, then in 2012 he became a state senator and over the last eight years Daniel has become a brilliant politician and an extraordinarily effective legislator in a state where it's famously hard to get anything done . He's built bipartisan support on everything from improving retirement benefits to ending exploitative student loan practices and now he is running for governor of Illinois .  Not just running in fact he has a very good chance of winning the Democratic primary on March 20th, even though his two opponents are a billionaire who has spent tens of millions of dollars on advertising and a literal Kennedy . Those are the kinds of people we tend to think of as likely politicians: heirs to famous families, billionaires who can buy all the TV ads they want .  I don't generally think of politicians as people .  Like, in my mind, they're somewhere between super heroes and super villains: larger-than-life characters with tremendous powers battling it out while the rest of us get our houses stomped on by their giant robot suits But imagining electoral politics that way can become a kind of self-fulfilling prophecy .  Like the main reason I didn't think Daniel should run for office all those years ago was because he didn't seem to me like the kind of person who would succeed at it .   But if people like Daniel don't run for office or we don't elect them then we end up with the comic book version of electoral politics . Obviously we don't need Lex Luthor running our governments, but I also don't think we need Superman .  We need capable people who know how to govern who can build consensus, who can listen well, and who can hold competing ideas in their minds . When your friend runs for governor you realize that politicians are people, even the billionaires, even the Kennedys .  So the question becomes not who looks or acts the part or who has the money or whatever else, the question becomes: which of these people, no more or less human than I, do I think would be best at this job ?  And if I thought of politics that way I would have understood from the beginning that Daniel would make a successful politician and for me that is real cause for optimism .  I am so proud of Daniel and really excited to support him . He and I are gonna do a Facebook live event this Thursday at 1:00 p . m .  Eastern Time .  I'll ask him some questions, you can ask some to more .  Info in the doobly-doo below .   And if you live in Illinois, VOTE .  Also if you don't live in Illinois, VOTE . Hank, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  So, our dog, Willy, is probably near the end of his life, and I don't want to wait until he dies to eulogize him .  So, here goes . Fireball Wilson Roberts Green came home with us in 2008 .  He was named for the alcoholic bulldog in James Crumbly's novel, The Last Good Kiss, but we called him Willy because, as the vet put it, he's  " Willy Willy cute .  "  Because he is cute, I expected Willy to be a cuddly, fur-ball, snuggly puppy, but Willy does not cuddle .  Or, at least, he didn't until the last few months .  He is a very strong-willed dog, at times exhaustingly so .  He does not want your pity, and he does not want your baby talk .  He does want your food, especially bacon and peanut butter, but not so much that he'll put up with your stupid human BS .  Like, when our children were smaller, they would run around the house, holding dog treats, trying to get Willy to chase them, and he would for a while .   But, then he would stop and go over to his dog bed, and wait for the kids to walk to him and feed him .   And then, after eating the treats, he would dash away, returning the world to it's normal order: people running after him . Speaking of kids, because Willy would not generally be classified as, like, a sweet dog, we worried a lot about new additions to our family .  Like, how would Willy handle the sudden presence of a human child, and then two children, taking up so much of the attention we had once lavished upon him ?  Brilliantly, as it turned out .  Willy has always been extraordinarily gentle and patient with with our kids, even when they were babies .  There is nothing calm about the way Willy responds to anything except when it comes to kids .   And, in turn, our children are fiercely loyal to him .  Any time Sarah or I say in conversation that we are a family of four, the kids both shout back,  " no !  Five !  You forget about Willy .  "   And I say,  " well, but four humans, "  and they say,  " but five family members !  "   And, they're right .  Willy is only a dog, and I recognize that, but he's our dog .   And we are, for at least a little while longer, a family of five . When we first brought Willy home, I talked about him a lot on the internet, but over the years, as I began to values the private-ness of my private life more, he became less of a fixture of my online life .   But, he has been a constant in our family amid big changes, and, for me personally, even though his barking has ruined thousands of Vlogbrothers' takes, his companionship has been a profound gift, especially in hard times .  One of the challenging things about my mental illness is how isolating it can be .  Like, my obsessive fears and worries seem to other people wildly irrational, because, I suppose from an objective standpoint, they are wildly irrational .   And that can make those fears difficult to share; like, nobody can really take my fear that  " X terrible thing "  is about to happen seriously, because they don't find my obsessive reasoning compelling .   But that doesn't help me, because I find my obsessive thoughts incredibly compelling, and then there's the problem of not even wanting to talk about  " X "  for fear that talking about it will make  " X "  happen .  Which, is why I'm currently referring to it as  " X .  "   And so, you end up in this spiral of thought, feeling very along, because people can love you and they can listen to you; but, they cannot share this feeling, because they know it to be irrational .   But Willy doesn't know .  All he knows is that I'm scarred .  I want to be careful not to anthropomorphize Willy .  He is not a person, and I don't know what life is like for him; but, I do believe, after ten years together that he knows when I'm worried .  He knows when I am consumed by thoughts I cannot shake, and in those moments he gravitates to me .  No cuddling, of course, but he will lay at my feet or walk around in circles to tell me that it is time to play together .  He takes me seriously, in a way that no human can, and I'm grateful for that . Willy is harder to take care of these days, and weeks of interrupted sleep have piled up on all of us, but still, I am grateful to him .  As the cancer advances, and Willy become the quiet, chill, cuddly dog I thought I always wanted, I'm grateful for the dog he is and, also, for the stubborn, yappy, and loyal dog that he was .  You're a good dog, Willy, and I love you .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  So, imagine you're a photographer living near the southern shore of Lake Vattern in Sweden .  On your commute to work each day, you pass a tree in a lakeshore park that looks kind of like a huge stalk of broccoli, and the Broccoli Tree always makes you smile .  There's just something about a single tree in an otherwise empty landscape; something that makes farmers harvest around them, and U2 put them on album covers .   And then, one day, in the spring of 2013, you take a picture of the Broccoli Tree on your iPhone camera and post it to Instagram .  There's a bit of dirt of your lens .  It's certainly not the fanciest picture you've ever taken, but people like it, 43 people in fact . Over the next few months, you upload a few more photographs of the Broccoli Tree .  The pictures aren't only about the tree, but also about the life happening around it: A bird in the sky, a jogger, a happy couple .  In November, you post a picture of the tree with a caption saying that you are reminded of an old quote,  " you don't take a picture, you make a picture .  "  That one gets 107 likes . By April of 2014, 11 months into the project, you're posting a few pictures of the Broccoli Tree every week, and you decide to give it it's own Instagram .  The tree becomes the focus of your creative life .  You photograph it through the seasons, and rain, and snow, and sunshine, capturing the people who line the beach for the brief and glorious Swedish summer, luxuriating in the Broccoli Tree's shade . Your audience grows into the thousands .  In the summer of 2015, you have an exhibition of your Broccoli Tree photographs, at the Broccoli Tree .   And your pictures keep getting better as the project becomes more popular .  The Broccoli Tree calendar is a success, and people all over the world buy Broccoli Tree prints for their homes .  By 2016, the Broccoli Tree project is so successful that the Broccoli Tree is become, like, famous .  People visit it as a tourist destination, and you find yourself in the surreal position of photographing the Broccoli Tree while people are photographing themselves with the Broccoli Tree .  Type  " the broccoli tree "  into Google Maps, and you're taken there immediately .  You can even street view it . Sure, by sharing the Broccoli Tree so widely it has come to belong less to you and your close friends, but it's amazing that so many people are seeing your photographs and that what started as you looking at a tree on your commute has become this huge deal .  The Broccoli Tree now has over 27 thousand followers on Instagram, which means that you are the photographic force behind the social Internet's single most famous tree .   And then .  .  . On September 27th, 2017, you go to photograph the tree in the morning, but something is different .  Upon close examination, it become obvious .  In a furious and heartbroken Instagram post, you write,  " you absolutely cannot un-saw a tree .  "   And, indeed, the damage proves irreversible .  A few days late, it's gone .  The Broccoli Tree, once your Broccoli Tree, is no more .  You loved something, you shared it .  Many people loved it, too .   And then, one or a few people decided to cut it down . Given enough time, such people will always cut down such trees .  The Joshua tree from the U2 album cover, gone .  The sacred golden spruce tree in British Columbia, gone .  The location of the oldest tree in the world, a 5 thousand year old bristle cone pine somewhere in California is kept secret, because otherwise, we all know what would happen . To share something is to risk losing it, especially in a world where sharing occurs at tremendous scale and where everyone seems to want to be noticed, even if only for cutting down a beloved tree .  If you'd never photographed the Broccoli Tree, it might still be there for you to see on your commute everyday .  It might still provide shade to the real people who live with you on the southern bank of that lake .   But, then again, the far away people who loved your pictures of the Broccoli Tree were real, too .  They took shelter under it's canopy as well, even if only virtually .   And, the truth is, if we hoard and hide what we love, we can still lose it .  Only then, we're alone in the loss .  You can't un-saw a tree, but you can't un-see one either .  The Broccoli Tree is gone, but it's beauty survives .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  So when I was a kid there was a popular joke construction called the  " Russian reversal "  .  The first time I heard a Russian reversal was in a Miller Lite commercial in 1985 where the comedian Yakov Smirnoff said,  " In America you can always find a party .  In Soviet Russia, party always finds you .  "   But the joke is actually much older than that .  It was used in a 1938 Cole Porter musical and in a 1960s episode of the show Laugh-In where the joke was:  " In America everybody watches television .  In the old country, television watches you .  "  Hah !  That's funny, everyone said before television started gathering reams of information about our viewing habits .  Be careful who you laugh at friends, for in time, you may become them .   But right, Russian reversal jokes were basically low-level xenophobic weapons of the Cold War trying to get Americans to believe that their country, where you could always find a party and watch television was perfect in purported contrast to life in the Soviet Union .  There were of course also American reversal jokes .  My favorite being,  " In the Soviet Union, people sometimes rob banks .  In capitalist America, bank robs you .  "   And there were jokes that refuted both ideologies, like this one from Moldovan-American educator Emil Vrabie:  " Under capitalism, man exploits man .  Under communism, it's the other way around .  " Of course these days the Russian reversal has been memed to near-extinction like so much else on the internet, but I still find the joke construction really really interesting because it starts out with you having agency over something, and then ends up with that something having agency over you .  Like in a way Michael Pollan's famous observation about corn is a Russian reversal joke .  He pointed out that while it's true that corn has adapted to our human interests, if you look at it from corn's perspective, we have adapted a lot to corn's interests .  Like we've changed our habitats and our diets and our travel patterns to make corn more plentiful, and when you look at it that way, corn kind of becomes the farmer, and we kind of become the crop .   And when you start looking for these jokes, you see them everywhere .  Like for starters, in Shakespeare .  In Richard the Second, the king says,  " I wasted time, and now time doth waste me .  "  There's a Winnie-the-Pooh story where Piglet says he's so small that he doesn't fly a kite, so much as the kite flies him .   And in the Oscar-nominated feature film Boss Baby, the titular character says,  " Either you run the day, or the day runs you .  "  Slightly off topic, but the book that movie is adapted from is excellent .  Anyway, I use this construction a lot in my book Turtles All the Way Down:  " You're the story teller, but you're also the story told, "   " You think you're spending money, but the money's spending you, "  et cetera .  Because the book is about what happens when you feel like you're not captaining the ship of your so-called self .   And I think what I love most about Russian reversals, is that they can reveal how weak we are before the forces of time, and the wind, and money, and everything else .   And in general I find it helpful to take a kind of Russian-reversal-style look at any big force in our lives .  Like, take the social internet's algorithms, for instance .  Are they informing us, or are we informing them ?  Or free markets, do markets exist to make human lives better and more efficient, or do human lives exist to make markets better and more efficient ?  Of course, the Russian reversal can create a false dichotomy: you can waste time and be wasted by time, and as we all know now, you can watch television and be watched by your television .   And maybe there's no tension at all in some reversals .  Like I guess it's possible that whatever makes markets more efficient is good for human lives, and whatever is good for human lives makes markets more efficient .   But in my experience, anyway, that kind of ideological rigidity rarely holds up to careful scrutiny, and I like the Russian reversal because it asks us to consider where the power is really centered in our discourse .  Sometimes the answer is obvious, the humans who plant the corn have much more power than the corn that gets planted .   But sometimes it isn't, is the real power with the Twitter user who chooses what they tweet and who they follow, or with the algorithm that decides which tweets the user actually sees ?   And is the real power with the people who make markets work, or with the markets that make people work ?  I don't think those questions have easy answers, but I do think that looking at them backwards has a way of telling us truths we otherwise might miss .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  It's been kind of a rough couple of days around here, so today I wanna try to cheer myself up by telling you a story about this weird and beautiful moment in sports . Okay, so our story begins in 1984 at the finals of the European Cup, which is this big soccer tournament where all the best teams in Europe play each other; today it's called the Champions League .   And in 1984, the final game was between Roma and Liverpool, and at the end of the game, it was tied 1-1, which meant there had to be a penalty shootout . At the time, Liverpool's goalkeeper was this guy named Bruce Grobbelaar who was, even by goalie standards, a pretty eccentric dude .   And, for some reason, during this incredibly high stakes penalty shootout, he decided to feign wobbly legged nervousness as one of the Roma penalty takers approached .   And then that guy skyed his penalty over the goal and Liverpool won the Champions League 4-2 on penalties .  And Bruce Grobbelaar cemented his status as a Liverpool legend .   But at the time this all happened in 1984, the hero of our story, Jerzy Dudek, was a ten year old kid living in a coal mining town in Poland .   And as a youngster, Jerzy Dudek was like a pretty good goalkeeper .  In his teens and early twenties, he played for a third tier Polish team .   But as he got older, he became a really good goalkeeper .  He found his way to Holland and then eventually to England, where he played for Liverpool beginning in 2001 .  Before we move on to the story, I just want to note that professional goalkeepers practice trying to save penalties a lot .  Like, by the time Jerzy Dudek arrived in England, he had tried to save many thousands of penalties .  When you're a goalkeeper, unless you're Bruce Grobbelaar, you learn your way of saving penalties, and for Jerzy Dudek, that was standing stock still and waiting until like a half second before the kick came in and then jumping one way or another .  Okay, so flash forward to 2005 .  Liverpool again find themselves in the finals of what is now called the Champions League with the chance to win their first European Cup trophy since 1984 and Jerzy Dudek is the goalkeeper .  They are again playing Italian opposition, this time AC Milan, and for Liverpool and Jerzy Dudek, the game starts horribly .  At halftime, they are down three-nothing .   And they weren't just losing, they were getting played off the pitch .  Like, AC Milan were just a much better team .   And then, essentially out of nothing, during one six minute stretch in the second half, Liverpool score three goals to tie the game .   And it remains tied for the next thirty minutes, and then through all thirty minutes of extra time .  Thanks in no small part to Jerzy Duduek . At the end of extra time, Dudek made a double save so incredible that to this day if you ask him about it, he says that he does not remember making the save and does not understand how he possibly could have made it . So, the game goes to a penalty kick shootout .  You're Jerzy Dudek .  You've been practicing saving penalties since you were a kid .  You have your way of doing it .  You've done your research, you knew this was a possibility, you've laid awake at night imagining it .  The Champions League final down to penalties, you in goal, standing stock still until the moment before the ball is kicked like you always have .   But then, one of your teammates, Jamie Carragher, walks up to you and says that in 1984, twenty-one years ago, this guy Bruce Grobbelaar did this weird crazy legs thing while defending penalties for Liverpool in the European Cup final, and it worked !  And Jamie Carragher is like, 'you should do that . ' But that was in 1984 with different players and a different coach and a different opposition .  What does that moment have to do with this one ?  Quite a bit, as it turns out .  There are time in your life when you do things precisely as you have prepared and practiced for them, and then there are times when you listen to Jamie Carragher .  So in the most important moment of your professional life, you start dancing .  You don't actually know how Bruce Grobbelaar did it, so you do your own version, and it works .  Milan's first penalty taker skys his shot over the goal and you save two of the next four penalties and Liverpool are European champions once more .  I think about this moment a lot .  Partly because I'm a Liverpool fan and we are notoriously mired in our own history, but also because it reminds me that sometimes the right decision is the weird decision .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . Specifically, it is the 323rd consecutive Tuesday I have made a Vlogbrothers video, except for one Tuesday where I had meningitis, and another Tuesday when I had labyrinthitis   . What I'm getting at is that I usually upload these videos on time because I am a punctual person . Like, I join conference calls exactly one minute before the call is supposed to begin, I arrive at the doctor's office exactly fifteen minutes early in case there's paperwork to fill out, and I must arrive at the airport at least ninety minutes before my flight is scheduled to depart - and when I say must, I mean must, like if I don't, there is a five-alarm fire in my brain . There's this line in the Great Gatsby where Nick says  " everyone suspects himself of at least one of the cardinal virtues, and this is mine: I am one of the few honest people I have ever known .  "  And that's nice Nick, that's a nice sentiment, but do you show up at Gatsby's house at the exact moment the invitation indicated the party would begin ?  Because I would .  Punctuality is the cardinal virtue I suspect myself of .  I might not be calm, I might not be pleasant, I might not be good .   But I will be on time . I also really like it when other people value punctuality, like Rosianna once called punctuality  " the most important commandment on the tablets, "  and I'm not sure she was kidding .  She's always two minutes early to conference calls . To me, being punctual is a way of saying to other people  " I value your time enough to show up when we agreed to show up, or even slightly earlier .  "  And I think that's important because ultimately time is all we have; it is overwhelmingly the most important human resource .  You know how sometimes you identify so closely with an ideal that it becomes part of how you understand yourself ?  Like, when I think about who I am, I think I am a husband, I am a father, and I am a punctual person .  And once you get to that point - like I don't just believe that punctuality is unambiguously good, I believe it is inseparable from what constitutes good - it's difficult to listen to voices that disagree with you, let alone take them seriously, right ?  I mean, who could be opposed to punctuality ? E . B .  White, as it turns out, who is best known today as the author of Charlotte's Web, but also was a brilliant magazine writer, and I was recently reading a collection of his, in which he wrote:  " we teach our child many things I don't believe in, and almost nothing I do believe in .  We teach punctuality, particularly if the enforcement of it disturbs the peace .  My father taught me, by example, that the greatest defeat in life is to miss a train .  Only after many years did I learn that an escaping train carries away with it nothing vital to my health .  Railroad trains are such magnificent objects we commonly mistake them for Destiny .  " I've always defended my punctuality absolutism by saying  " it's about respecting other people and their time .  "   But if I'm yelling at my family to get in the car so we're not eighty-six minutes early for a flight, am I really respecting people and their time, or am I just disturbing the peace ? Now, I've never missed a train  , but until I read those lines, it had literally never occurred to me that an escaping train carries with it nothing vital to my health, but it doesn't . Of course, I still value punctuality, but lately I've been thinking that, as with many things, extreme punctuality can become a vice . Even when what you worship is good and noble, it doesn't always make you better or nobler . Alright, I have to go pack for our spring break vacation - we fly out in the morning .  I'm not going to miss the flight, or anything, but I am going to try to be less early .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank it's Tuesday, obligatory greeting from a hotel room .  So last week Sarah made a brilliant art assignment video about how extremely wealthy people can sometimes use art collection as a strategy to avoid taxation .   And it got me to thinking about how in general a lot of the US tax code seems to affect everyone, but in fact mostly matters only to rich people .  Okay so let's imagine four families with two parents and two kids .  Family one makes $35,000 a year, family two makes the median US household income of $59,000 per year .  Family three makes the average earned by the wealthiest 10% of US households $295,000 .   And family four makes the average earned by the wealthiest 1% of US households $1 . 2 million dollars . So in the US we have these things called deductions, which allow you to deduct a certain amount from your taxable income .  Like many business expenses are tax deductible, so if you make say a hundred dollars a year selling posters but they cost twenty dollars to print, your taxable income would be reduced to 80 dollars .   But critically every taxpayer in the United States can take the so called standard deduction, which was created to simplify the tax code so that most people don't have to list their deductions, they can just take the standard one .  In 2018, the standard deduction for each of our hypothetical families will be $28,000 or $14,000 if you're single .  So no matter what, each of our four families gets to take $28,000 off of their taxable income .  Which also means that unless your other deductions exceed $28,000, you don't get a tax break from them .  Example, most charitable contributions are deductible in the US, but if each of our families gave 8% of their income to charity, only the family in the 1%, who would donate $96,000, would see their taxable income go down as a result of charitable contributions alone .  Because for the rest of them, their donations would be below $28,000 . Now, of course the rich family did give much more in dollar terms to charity .   But they're also the only one of our four families to essentially receive a government subsidy in exchange for that donation .  This deduction does incentivize charitable giving among rich people and without it charities would receive much less money, but I think it's worth remembering that every time you see someone's name in big letters at an art museum or a medical research facility, 35% of that money would have otherwise gone to the government .  It would have gone to build roads and pay soldiers, and reduce the deficit ?  Probably not . Side note, you might think these tax breaks would make rich people super generous, but no .  Families making between $45,000 and $60,000 a year on average give between 3 . 5% and 4% of their income to charity .  Those making between 1 and 5 million dollars a year give on average between 2 . 8% and 3 . 2% .  Another popular tax deduction is for interest paid on your mortgage, which is supposed to incentivize people to buy homes .  Although in practice it mostly incentivizes rich people to get mortgages .  To illustrate my point, lets imagine that each of our four hypothetical families, in addition to giving 8% of their income to charity, owns a home that costs 4 times their annual income .  Assuming no other deductions our family making $35,000 a year gets no tax breaks for their mortgage or their charitable giving, because they're much better off with the standard deduction .  As is our family making $59,000 a year .   And our family in the top 10% also doesn't benefit much, their taxable income goes from $267,000 with the standard deduction, all the way down to $249,000 without it .  That reduces their total federal tax bill by about $4,300, just over 1% of their income .  Our family in the 1% meanwhile, would save over $40,000 on their tax bill, translating to over 3% of their total income .  Now some families may have other deductions, especially around medical expenses, and I should note that home ownership and charitable giving are good things for governments to encourage .   But I think it's worth remembering that these tax deductions mostly benefit wealthy people, and by far the greatest benefit, both in terms of absolute dollars and percentage of income, is reaped by the richest 1% of US households .  If you want to learn more about taxes, specifically the shocking truth about art and taxes, I highly recommend Sarah's art assignment video on the topic .  Hank, I will see you on Friday .  *sneezes* oh, that's been coming .  Yeah, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .   So it was recently brought to my attention that if you search for my name on Google, the very first video result is a video you made in 2011, Hank, called  " John Green is an IDIOT !  "   Now, don't get me wrong, it's a great video, it's just not necessarily the first video I want associated with my name, so today, I thought I would try to replace that video by making a video in which I answer questions that people ask Google about me, beginning with  " Is John Green dead ?  "   No .   Well, actually, I guess it depends on when you're watching this, but not currently .    " Where did John Green live ?  "   Does, does, where does John Green live ?   I am alive .   I live in Indianapolis, where my books The Fault in Our Stars and Turtles All the Way Down are set .   Before that, I lived in Chicago, where part of An Abundance of Katherines is set and before that, I lived in Birmingham, Alabama, where Looking for Alaska is set and before that, I lived in Orlando, Florida, where Paper Towns is set .   I am not given over to acts of geographical imagination .  " What books did John Green wrote ?  "   I guess we're just living in a world without verb tenses .   I wrote the books listed above as well as half of Will Grayson, Will Grayson and 1/3 of Let it Snow .    " When did John Green publish his first book ?  "   2005 .   Look at that little child trying to be serious for his author photo .  " Are John and Hank Green related ?  "   Yes, we are brothers, and no, there are no other siblings .   Well, except for Dave, but we don't talk about Dave .  " Is Hank or John Green older ?  "   I'm just gonna revel in the fact that that's a question people have asked Google .  " Is John Green a Hufflepuff ?  "   I am, quite proudly, I might add .    " What is the meaning of DFTBA ?  "   It's an initialism for several phrases, including 'Don't Forget to be Awesome' and 'Darling, fetch the battle axe', and also, 'Dave: forgotten through brotherly adventures' .    " Is John Green married ?  "  I am .    " Does John Green have a child ?  "   I actually have two .  " Does John Green have a podcast ?  "   I also have two of those .  " Is John Green banned from Canada ?  "   No, but I do have to go through extra screening when entering Canada because I am on a list of potential undesirables due to the fact that I was denied entrance to Canada in 1995 for  " insufficient funds "  .    " What is John Green's cameo in The Fault in Our Stars movie ?  "   Right, so my cameo was cut from the movie because I am a terrible actor .   That noted, the scene is available as a DVD extra and also on YouTube .  " Does John Green have a Hollywood star ?  "   A John Green does, but he is not me .   He was a composer who won five Academy Awards for scoring such movies as An American in Paris and West Side Story, although today he is mostly forgotten, which is a nice reminder that no matter what you do, the tides of time will wash away your sandcastle so there's no sense in reaching for some foolhardy notion of immortality when there is real work to be done with real people right now, but what were we talking about ?   Right, no, I don't have a star on the Hollywood walk of fame .  " Which John Green book should I read ?  "   I mean, I'm a little biased, but I think you should read all of them .  " Is John Green writing a new book ?  "   Possibly, but it's hard to know for sure .  " Does John Green like soccer ?  "   Yes, enough to sponsor a third tier English soccer team, which, by the way, over the weekend, might have avoided relegation by coming back from 2-nil down at halftime to win 3-2 on the last kick of the game .   I wept .   I'm not embarrassed to say it .   I cried like a baby .   Henry said,  " Why are you crying ?   Isn't it happy ?  "   Yes .   It's happy .  " What kind of music does John Green listen to ?  "   I listen to the early stuff from The Mountain Goats and also the more recent stuff by The Mountain Goats .  " What is a Nerdfighter John Green ?  "   So, Hank and I have been making videos here at Vlogbrothers for more than 11 years and the people in the community that's grown up around these videos call themselves Nerdfighters because they fight for intellectual engagement and celebrate unironic enthusiasm .  " Did John Green won any awards ?  "   My books have won a Printz Award and an Edgar Award, but most prestigiously, an MTV Movie Award .   If I just get four more of these, maybe I'll get one of those Hollywood stars .  " Did John Green started VidCon ?  "   This can't go on any longer .   I just need to leave some quick feedback for Google .   VERB TENSES .   I technically co-founded VidCon but only because I was on the phone with my brother when he came up with the idea .   Actually, that's true for most of the stuff we've made together, like, when I look at my Wikipedia page, I mostly just think, man, look at all these things Hank did while I was writing books ?   Okay, if you have any other questions, please leave them in comments, I'll answer as many as I can .   Hank, I will see you on Friday .                 
Temporary glasses, don't freak out . Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday .  Today, I want to talk to you about how to win - in life, in sports, in whatever - because I am very nervous right now, and I would like to send some winning energy into the world .  Or, at the very least, some tying energy .  But first, a bit of background .  So, our community sponsors a third-tier English soccer team called AFC Wimbledon .  Specifically, our logo occupies the liminal space between the left thigh and buttock on their uniform .   And this has been a really difficult season for Wimbledon .  They've lost more games than they've won, and with two games to go, they are currently in 19th place out of 24 teams .   And that's a tad worrisome, because the bottom four teams will be relegated and spend next season in the fourth tier of English football . So, in order for Wimbledon not to get relegated, they need to win or draw one of their last two games, the first of which starts, as I'm recording this, in about an hour .  Definitely nervous-making .  But on the other hand, this is definitely the best position Wimbledon has been in for, like, months, largely thanks to the Walsall Event .  It's amazing how an entire season of football, or really any endeavor, can come down to ridiculously little things .  Like, Hank, I often think that if your Harry Potter song hadn't been featured by YouTube in July of 2007, none of this would exist .  Of course, lots of other things had to happen too, so many that I can't name all of them or even know about all of them .  We all live, for better and for worse, with what happens to have happened .  But right, the Walsall Event .  With five games left in the season, AFC Wimbledon are 2-0 down to Walsall at halftime .  The last time Wimbledon came back from a 2-0 deficit was a year and a half earlier, a 2-2 draw against Bury .   But then, near the start of the second half,  Andy Barcham is fouled, the ensuing penalty is saved, but the rebound happens to fall to Joe Pigott who scores .   And then, in the 65th minute, Lyle Taylor scores a beautiful goal and the comeback is complete: 2-2 . Everyone celebrates: huzzah, huzzah !  Except wait, hold on, roll that back .  Right there .  You see that guy picking up the ball ?  That's Wimbledon's captain, Barry Fuller .   And he's doing that to run the ball back to the center circle to get the game restarted as quickly as possible .  Now, time added on to the end of the half by the referee is supposed to account for all of this, but in practice everyone knows you can save a few seconds by running the ball back . So while everyone else was justifiably celebrating the completion of their comeback, Wimbledon's captain was like,  " Hold on, guys, we can still win this .  "   And I mean, we're talking here about at most 15 seconds .  That is 1/360 of the game .   But as it happened, that was a vital 1/360, because in the final seconds of the game, Lyle Taylor was fouled in the box .  Dean Parrett scored a penalty, and Wimbledon won the game 3-2 .  That meant three points added to their season total instead of one, three points that here, at the end of the season, look like they might be absolutely essential . So, why did the Walsall event happen ?  It happened because of accurate shooting, because of a referee's decisions, because the ball bounced one way and not the other .   But it also happened because Barry Fuller picked the ball up and ran it back to the center circle, even though he knew that by doing that, he was only increasing Wimbledon's chances of winning by some fraction of a percent . There is so much luck in this world, and none of us should ever forget that .   And we also all have to depend on the good judgment of strangers and help from our friends and colleagues and teammates .   But also, you have to hope, and you have to go on .  Even when you've lost more games than you've won and you've been down so far that a tie feels like winning, you have to pick up the ball and run it back to midfield and believe, in spite of it all, that this game is still winnable . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  I assume you're familiar with the famous Simpsons newspaper headline,  " Old Man Yells at Cloud .  "   But it occurs to me that some people watching this might not be familiar with it, or else might only know it from the internet, because they were born after that episode of The Simpsons first aired in 2002 . So, when you have kids one of the phrases you start hearing a lot is,  " developmentally appropriate .  "  Like your pediatrician will say that temper tantrums are developmentally appropriate or that it's developmentally appropriate for your kids to refuse to eat anything other than processed carbohydrates .   And that as such it's developmentally appropriate for your kids to engage in a complex nightly negotiation over whether they will eat two strawberries so as to stave off scurvy . Anyway, I like this phrase developmentally appropriate and I wish we continued to use it into adulthood so that I could tell myself that it's developmentally appropriate not to understand Snapchat, or to genuinely enjoy gardening, or to find myself yearning for some idealized past that never existed .  It may be that I feel this more acutely than the average person because I've made a living trying to write about how it feels to be young for the last 13 years .  I mean, I'm so old that my career is a teenager .  I should add here that getting older does not have to mean yelling at clouds and on that front I have wonderful models in my parents both of whom have remained passionate, and hopeful, and curious throughout their adult lives .  Like when I was in ninth grade I like to listen to Nine Inch Nail's  " Pretty Hate Machine "  really, really loudly and one day my dad came in and asked if he could borrow the CD and I was like,  " Yeah,  but you're gonna hate it because it's super 'alternative' .  "  I think I literally said 'alternative . '  And then a few days later my dad returned the CD to me and told me that, while he could live without some of the profanity, he found the music really compelling and hoped I didn't mind that he had gone out and bought his own copy of the album .   Ah, is there a better way to defend a child's rebellion ?   But even though I have wonderful mentors in the field of being middle-aged, I still find myself yelling at clouds .  I yell at literal clouds because they impact the garden that, God help me, I have gotten really, really into .  I yell at our unnuanced outrage driven political discourse and most of all, I yell at - and also I suppose with - the social internet .  From the time I was 14 until a few years ago, the social internet gave me deep meaningful relationships that I struggled to find IRL .   But now it mostly makes me feel anxious and spirally without deepening my feeling of connectedness .   And I don't think that's because the internet used to be amazing, like 1994 AOL chat rooms make 2018 Twitter look civil and sophisticated .  I think it's because I've changed, but if I didn't feel an obligation to be on Twitter and Reddit and the rest, I don't think I would be and maybe I shouldn't feel an obligation to be in virtual spaces that I feel like they make my life worse .   But then the internet always pulls me back in .  Partly because I don't want to miss out, partly because I want to share stuff I'm working on and books I love and causes I care about, and partly because I feel this almost physical urge to check .  Check my e-mail, check Twitter, check Instagram, check Reddit, make sure nothing terrible has happened, make sure there's nothing new that needs my outrage or my aws .  Check, check, check .  Like many people with OCD, I live with the constant urge to check, the terrifying dread that accompanies not checking .  Ihe irrational certainty that this time checking will be important .   But it feels to me at times like this phenomena now happens across the social order - like the internet has hacked healthy brains and turned them into obsessive checking machines .   But there again I am an old man yelling at a cloud, forgetting that the social internet also facilitates conversations across borders and other divisions and that it gives a voice to people who otherwise wouldn't have one and so on .  Feeling the urge to make grand pronouncements about what's good for other people is probably a developmentally appropriate symptom of middle age, but it's one worth fighting against .  I don't know how you should live with what Mary Oliver called,  " Your one wild and precious life .  "  I don't even know how to live mine, but I know that I like my garden .  So if I'm quiet on Twitter or elsewhere, know that I'm probably here and quite content .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday . So on the Youtube channel Healthcare Triage doctor Aaron Carroll often says that data is not the plural of anecdote .   But in a world where there are so many factual anecdotes out there it can be difficult to see the larger truths that data can tell us; for instance there are terrible crimes every day in the United States, but that doesn't change the fact that the US homicide rate is lower than it was 10 or 20 or 30 or 40 or 50 years ago .  Anyway, to try to understand the world better I often use maps, and here are seven that I found especially helpful .  First, we have this map which divides the human population into tenths .  I like this one because it reminds me that Canda, the United States, Mexico, most of the Caribbean, Chile, Peru, and more only constitute 1/10 of the world's population .  the world is so much bigger than my world, and the human story is so much bigger than the human stories I usually hear .  Also, since I mentioned Peru, Peru is big !  As is Somalia .  Those are not among the 7 maps, by the way, those are bonus maps .  You're welcome .  Then there's this map from Our World in Data, which shows the average years of school people had around the world in 1950 .  The yellow is between 0 and 2 years, the green between 2 and 6, and as the colors get darker, people get better educated .  Here's 1970, and then here's 1990, and here's what it looked like in 2010 .  There are still huge gaps between rich and poor countries and between rich and poor people within many countries, but even so, all around the world kids are getting more educational  opportunities, which is good because it means more potential innovators to solve all of the problems we are leaving those kids with . Speaking of which, here's what global CO2 emissions looked like in 1950, almost all the emissions coming from the world's wealthiest countries .  Here's 1970, and here's 1990, and this is 2016: a few countries starting to get lighter, but only a few .  Meanwhile, this map shows average temperature changes between 1965 and 2014 .  Red areas are where the Earth has gotten warmer, white areas are where the temperature hasn't changed, and blue areas are where it's gotten col- there is no blue .  Then there's this amazing map of global borders and when they were created .  I'll put links in the Dooblydoo so you can explore all these maps in detail, but the fascinating thing to me here is just how recent many national borders are .  Like, we often think of nation-states as intractable realities and national borders as fixed, but, in fact, most national borders are less than 120 years old . Okay, let's return to Our World in Data to look at this map of the percentage of births in 1991 that were attended by trained healthcare workers: doctors, nurses, midwives, etc .  In Brazil, it was under 70%; in India, 34%; in Mali, 26% .  Now let's flash forward to 2015 .  In Mali, 60% of births are attended by a healthcare worker; in India, it's over 80%; and in Brazil, it's over 95% .  The benefits of this are staggering .  522 thousand mothers died in childbirth in 1991 .  In 2015, 303 thousand did .  We still have a long way to go, but that is real progress .   And lastly, let's look at my favorite map: Life Expectancy .  I know this is a controversial position, but I believe that human lives should be long and healthy .  Here's what global life expectancy looked like in 1980, and here's what it looked like 35 years later .  All around the world, low and middle-income countries, from China to India to Peru to Angola, have seen life expectancy go up by at least 10 years, and, in some cases, 20 .  So thank you, Mapmakers, for giving me hope, and also, when appropriate, fear .  Hank, before I go, one thing: I enjoy sponsoring AFC Wimbledon so much, and it has made me want to sponsor other things .  So if you're part of a club, or team, or organization, or whatever that could use modest sponsorship  , email me at sparksflyup@gmail . com with the subject line  " Sponsorship .  "  And when I say  " sponsorship, "  I don't mean  " donation, "  which is a separate thing .  I mean getting some kind of  " Marketing Value "  in exchange for the sponsorship, like our logo on your uniform or something .  If it sounds like I said that to make sure I'm cool with the IRS, I did .   But right, sparksflyup@gmail . com .  I apologize in advance for all of the awesome things I won't be able to sponsor, but I'm going to try to sponsor at least a few things .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  Last night I dreamt that there were two ligers walking through my backyard, a liger being the offspring of a male lion and female tiger .  This struck me as pretty unusual and conceivably impossible so I began to investigate the situation within my dream .  I considered for instance that there is often wildlife in my backyard: deer, coyotes, foxes, one time I saw a beaver . It did seem unlikely that there would be two ligers given their rarity, but I reassured myself that they were probably brother and sister .  Also ligers are not, uh, native to Indianapolis, so they had probably escaped captivity, and if you were an escaped liger in central Indiana my backyard is one of the places you might seek out because it is wooded and contains lots of potential food mostly in the form of 4 million chipmunks .  All in all it seemed perfectly possible to me that sibling ligers had escaped their cages to dine in my backyard .  the problem of course, is that my investigation of the liger situation began with the conclusion: there are ligers in my backyard .   And then I worked my way back to the story of how they came to be there rather than pausing to consider that the ligers I thought I saw might have been, for instance, deer or that I might have been, say, dreaming . My friend Amy Cross Rosenthal once said that nothing is less interesting than other people's dreams, and I apologize for introducing you to my subconscious but I mention all of this because it seems to me that the liger delusion is at the heart of a lot of contemporary discourse, especially around politics .  You start with what you already know to be incontrovertibly true; that Republicans are crooks that only want to line that the pockets of their wealthy donors or that Democrats are crooks who want the government to control every aspect of human life, and then you look for the how and why .  I mean these days it can be difficult to even know when you believe in a conspiracy theory, in part because conspiracy theories are sometimes true, and in part because, no matter the subject, the closer you look, the more you see .  Put another way, the more you consider ligers might be roaming Indianapolis, the more explanations you'll find for why . Take for instance the following conspiracy theory, which may, of course, prove to be true .  Republican donor Elliot Broidy paid a woman over a million dollars no to discuss their alleged affair that's known but the conspiracy theory holds that the actual affair was between that woman and Donald Trump and then Broidy steepen in to cover up that affair and make the payment .  Now if you look for explanations of why Broidy might have done this, you will find them . Broidy has profited tremendously from the Trump presidency .  He also has a history of covering up affairs for, this friends and no - Stop because none of that means he covered up an affair for Trump .  Of course the same happens on the right where conspiracy theories from Benghazi to pizza gate are presumed true by many but my worry is that many of us are falling into the trap of believing that we, however, we define that, are the ones alive to the real reality while those who disagree with us are mere sheeple, a term that literally dehumanizes others . You see this all the time with people saying 'wake up' or 'keep dreaming' as if only those who we disagree with can fall prey to the liger delusion .  What I have found while looking for ligers is this: I am far more likely to believe an allegation to be true or to be important if it confirms my pre-existing worldview, and if it would challenge my worldview I am likely to believe it to be false or else irrelevant .  Sometimes on TV news or political radio or podcasts you'll hear the phrase, 'we don't yet know all the facts, but' then after the 'but' come somes speculation or a statement of implication . Like, we don't yet know all the facts but someone saw two ligers in the backyard, we know that .  Hank I have to stop beginning with the conclusion, I have to stop speculating ahead of the story and instead wait for the facts to come out, and I have to stop saying 'but' after 'we don't yet know all the facts' .   But I don't know how . This is the part of the video where I turn it around and find reasons to be hopeful and make a call to action .   But I don't know how .  I do think being aware of the conspiratorial instincts can be helpful, but I don't know how to escape the liger delusion . Hank I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday, and I'm in my garden which can only mean one thing: it's time to harvest the peas .   Deer ate a bunch of my food a couple weeks ago so my dad made a fence .   Thanks, Dad !   Now, I've already gotten to enjoy quite a bit of kale and collard greens this year, but it's the first pea harvest and I'm just so excited, I can't wait anymore, Hank, let's do it !   Let's harvest the peas !   Aaaand, done .   I got the peas . Okay, Hank, it's time to count up our peas .   We've got .  . oh God, don't go away !   No, you're one of my only peas !   Okay, we've got three peas plus the runaway .   Oh yeah .   Oh yeah, that's four peas .   We've got .  . there's the fourth pea .   Ahh !   More runaway peas !   Why do the good peas always run away, run away .   Where ya at, pea ?   Come on, man .   Come on .   You're 10% of my pea crop for the year .   Nine peas .   It hasn't been the best pea weather here in Indianapolis because it went from cold to hot more or less immediately, but we're not letting that discourage us .   Now, Hank, one way of looking at these nine peas is that they were very expensive .   Like, if you count all the water and the compost and the seeds, it's about 25 cents a pea, but another way of looking at it is that my peas are very valuable .   Walk with me .   Hank, today, I'm going to teach you how to create the most luxurious and delicious nine pea snack in the history of the world .   Let's get to it . So if you're making a luxury nine pea dish, the first thing you're gonna want to do is massage your peas very gently .   There are a lot of ways to do this but my favorite way is to try to see how my peas I can fit in a pea mustache .   Oh no, one's stuck .   It's a disaster . Usually the next thing I like to do is just give my peas a basic overview of some of the factors that affect their lives, because you don't want to eat uneducated peas .    And the team playing in Milton Keynes actually got relegated out of the third tier if you can believe that so AFC Wimbledon don't even have to play them . So once you've got your peas educated and massaged, it's time to start thinking about cooking them and obviously this is gonna be uncomfortable, mostly for the peas .   I recommend gently but firmly explaining the situation to your peas .   So listen, guys, we've had a good run together but I am going to eat you now .   My body is going to turn you into energy that I will then use to probably watch TV and then once you've given your peas what I call 'The Talk', it's time to cook them .   Let's go to the kitchen . So one thing a lot of people don't know is that unlike asparagus or kale, peas are actually quite starchy, which means you have to boil them for a little longer .   An under-cooked pea is just not that good .   Great, now I got eight peas .   I like to boil my water in a tiny artisanal pot because, you know, I've already wasted enough water growing the eight peas .   There we go .   You know what they say about a watched pot .   It will eventually boil .   You're gonna drop in your eight remaining peas, I'd say for about like five minutes .   Sometimes it helps the peas cook if you sing them a little song .   Did you ever know that you're my pea-ro, I'm really sorry about that pun, it sucked . While you're waiting, I recommend looking at art, like this picture .   When I first got it, I thought it was about Hollywood coming for YouTube and then later I thought it was about YouTube coming for Hollywood and now, I don't know what I think . Then you use your pea scooper to scoop out the .  .  . dang it .   Then put your eight cooked peas in a soy sauce container and then at last, it's time to eat your eight peas .   I recommend eating them one at a time .   Mmm, mmm, tastes a lot like the peas you get at the grocery store .  So Hank, if you wanna have a luxury pea experience, nope .   That doesn't sound right .   No, no .   At any rate, I cannot recommend gardening enough .   Really .   Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday, I can't find my Norton Anthology of Poetry . I don't mean *the* Norton Anthology of Poetrywhich can be purchased from any bookstore, I mean *my* Norton Anthology of Poetry .  Or, more specifically, my friend Chip's Norton Anthology of Poetry that I borrowed from him in 11th grade and then eventually stole . The 3rd edition of the Norton Anthology of Poetry is a deeply flawed book .  For one thing, it contains almost no poems from the last 40 years on account of having been published 35 years ago, but it is *my* deeply flawed book .  .  .  or at the very least, Chip's .  And I can't find it .  One of the central facts of my life is that no matter how many times I reorganize my home library in any given moment, I will not be able to find the book that I desperately need . Like, I can always find the New York Public Library's guide to organizing your home library .  .  .  except when I'm embarking on a library reorganization .   And I can always find my 9th grade copy of 100 poems by EE Cummings .  .  . except when it's March and I want quote that poem about Spring being like a  " perhaps hand which comes carefully out of Nowhere "  etc . Right now I have no problem locating Everything You Need To Know About The Goth Scene, I can find plenty of copies of the Swedish edition of Turtles All The Way Down, and its AMAZING cover, but I can not find my Norton Anthology of Poetry . It's not with the poetry, It's not with the Hot Wheels Ultimate track, it's not in the bookshelf behind our bed And it's not in the background of this video set .  .  .  although while we're here .  .  . Two books I've really enjoyed reading recently arethis extraordinarily engrossing biography of Joseph Conrad, which are not words I ever thought I would say .  And Dactyl Hill Squad which doesn't come out until September but I've been reading an advanced copy with Henry .  It's about orphans in the Civil War who ride dinosaurs and IT IS AMAZING .  But that is a tangent WHERE IS MY Norton Anthology of Poetry !  I mean this is ridiculous .  I've been looking for my Norton Anthology of Poetry for an entire day I haven't been able to write a Vlogbrothers script because I've been looking for my Norton Anthology of Poetry, which, ergo, *has* to become the topic of today's Vlogbrothers video .  IT'S A THREE POINT TWO POUND BOOK .  Nobody like takes a 3 . 2 pound book on vacation and leaves it there .  And yes I know that I could just Google the poem I want to read but I don't *want* to Google it, I want to read it in my Norton Anthology of Poetry which HAS to be somewhere in this house I mean it's not like I would have taken it out of the h-  .  .  .    wait a second Could it be at the office ? Okay I'm going to drive to the office to look for my Norton Anthology of Poetry and if I don't find it I *am* going to let it go .  .  .  Maybe . I'm on my way to my office .  C'mon, big money, no whammies ! YES !  YES !  YES !  My Norton Anthology of Poetry ! YEEEEAAAASSSSSSThe house was quiet and the world was calm .  The reader became the book; and summer night Was like the conscious being of the book .  The house was quiet and the world was calm .  The words were spoken as if there was no book, Except that the reader leaned above the page, Wanted to lean, wanted much most to be The scholar to whom his book is true, to whom The summer night is like a perfection of thought .  The house was quiet because it had to be .  The quiet was part of the meaning, part of the mind: The access of perfection to the page .   And the world was calm .  The truth in a calm world, In which there is no other meaning, itself Is calm, itself is summer and night, itself Is the reader leaning late and reading there . Oh !  it's every bit as good as I remember and just what I needed today .  Hank, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday . Every four years, the 32 best men's national soccer teams gather together for the World Cup, which is played in whatever country has most successfully bribed FIFA officials .  It's the most-watched sporting event in the world, and the United States won't be there .  Here's an introduction to the 32 nations that will . Argentina have Lionel Messi, arguably the best player never to win the World Cup .  Australia's national team are called the Socceroos, which makes them hard to dislike .  Belgium have argyle in their uniforms, so they'll probably win the tournament . Brazil are consistently a joy to watch, except when they are playing Germany, and they are the favorites to win the World Cup this year .  Colombia's jerseys look like they have an armpit sweat pattern, but I will not let that distract me from the extraordinary good looks of their star player, James Rodriguez .  Costa Rica just passed the United States in life expectancy, in addition to beating us twice in World Cup qualifying, so that's nice for them . Croatia are notable for having a chessboard on their uniform .  Denmark invented LEGO, so that makes them fun to root for .  Egypt has qualified for their first World Cup since 1990, and they are led by noted hero and dreamboat Mohamed Salah, and their goalkeeper is 45 years old, which is a real inspiration to old people like me .  All in all, they are my adopted team for the World Cup . England, right .  So the deal with England is that every World Cup, all the fans are like,  " Our team isn't even that good .  We probably won't even make the quarterfinals .  "   And then they do make the quarterfinals, whereupon they lose and all the fans are shocked and devastated that their national team did exactly what it always does . France's mascot is a rooster .  Also, they're a trendy pick to win the World Cup this year, but they couldn't beat the United States in a friendly over the weekend, so I'm a bit dubious .  Germany are very good, and they have a manager who always looks like an aging Beatle trying to hail a cab . Iceland qualified for the World Cup despite having a population smaller than Wichita, Kansas .  How are we not going to the World Cup ?  !  I'm sorry, that is off topic .  Congratulations to Iceland, who would be a great pick for my adopted team if it weren't for my undying love for Mohamed Salah . Iran's backup goalkeeper slept on the floor of the pizza restaurant where he worked until signing a professional contract a few years ago .  Almost all of Japan's players play professionally for Japanese teams, which is why it's no excuse to say MLS isn't good enough to develop World Cup-level players . Mexico are obviously the best team in North America .  Also, they have Rafa Marquez, who will be playing in his fifth World Cup .  Morocco have a very strong defense, which they will need against Spain and Portugal .  Nigeria, meanwhile, have the best kits in the tournament, and if they weren't in the hardest group they might go far, but they are in the hardest group . Panama have qualified for their first World Cup ever, which is great, and I am totally over the fact that they beat the United States in qualifying .  How do you lose to Trinidad .  .  .  ?  ! My friend, the writer Daniel Alarcon, is Peruvian, and their uniform has a sash, and they've qualified for their first World Cup since 1982, making them an excellent choice for your adopted team, until and unless you look into these dreamy eyes .  Poland are a good long-shot pick to go far in the tournament, if their star striker Robert Lewandowski is in form . Portugal have Cristiano Ronaldo, if you're into that kind of thing .  I'm sorry, I'm trying to work my way through some of my issues around Real Madrid right now .  Russia's hosting the tournament, and I'm not going to say anything else, because I am genuinely scared of Vladimir Putin . Saudi Arabia are the biggest underdogs .  Serbia has a defense with tons of experience, or, put another way, they're old .  Nobody agrees with me, but I think Senegal could go to the semifinals, because Sadio Mane is really good .   And no, this video has not been biased by my affection for Liverpool . South Korea's coach is only four years older than Egypt's goalkeeper .  Spain are kind of the Yankees of soccer .  Sweden no longer has football's biggest personality, Zlatan Ibrahimovic, so why bother . Switzerland specializes in neutrality, which is perhaps why they play so many excruciatingly boring nil-nil draws .  Tunisia's kits look so good I bought one, but I fear their World Cup will be brief .  And last but not least, Uruguay are probably best known for having a striker, Luis Suarez, who has bitten opponents on three separate occasions .   But that ignores the important fact that in more than 99% of his competitive games, Luis Suarez hasn't bitten anyone, a nearly perfect record . I'll be live-tweeting every game of this year's World Cup at my sports Twitter, @sportswithjohn .  I hope to see you there .  Hank, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . I've always wanted a signature move .  This started when I was in middle school and susceptible to ludicrously oversimplified ideas about social status, on account of not having any and desperately wanting some .  Anyway, some guru of that era wrote in some guide to being cool that one of the keys was nodding upward whenever you encountered someone in a hallway or whatever, rather than nodding downward which was a sign of, like, subservience .  So I tried to make the up-nod my signature move to tell my peers that I was confident and powerful .  Which, you know, went about as well as you would expect . Later, I developed a new and much worse signature move, which I hesitate to even tell you about, but, uh, it was this as a form of greeting *finger-guns*  .  Like, I would be like, *finger-guns*  " Hello there !  "   And that one also surprisingly did not become for me what the moonwalk was for Mchael Jackson or heel clicking is for the Lucky Charms leprechaun .   And so I trudged through life as a person without a signature move .  Hank, I've been thinking about this recently because you're currently signing 40,000 sheets of paper that will be bound into your forthcoming first novel, An Absolutely Remarkable Thing which comes out September 25th and is available for pre-order now, and you sent me 2,000 copies of these signed sheets for me to add something to the way that you have added your signature move, the Hanklerfish, to many copies of my books .   Which I'm happy to do, except I don't have a s .  .  .  hold on .  Okay, late-breaking news, the first review of Hank's book has just come out, like literally minutes ago, and it's SO GREAT .  It's a starred review from Kirkus and it calls An Absolutely Remarkable Thing  " A fun contemporary adventure that cares about who we are as humans especially when faced with remarkable events "   " Green is clearly interested in how social media moves the needle on our culture and he uses April's fame, choices, and moral quandaries reflect on the rending of social fabric .  "  Hank, that is so good !  I am so excited .  Your book is so brilliant .  I cannot wait for people to read it .  Okay, back to the regularly scheduled video . Right, so I have these 2000 sheets of paper from a book that just got a really good review but I don't have a signature move .  I mean, even my eight-year-old son has a signature move, the Pokeball, which he's put on several of these sheets .  So first I thought that since you have the Hanklerfish, an organism might be appropriate, but I figured, you know, for me it should probably be something microscopic .  So I tried to make like, uh, I don't really know what that is .  It's a little bit like the Sun but also a little bit like a bacterium .  Then I thought: I love Hank's book so much, maybe I'll give it five stars, only to learn that I can't draw stars .  Then I thought, well, I'm better with words so maybe I'll make a stick figure with the speech bubble that says,  " Hank's book is great !  "  but that looks like it was made by a five-year-old . In the end, here is what I've settled on .  On about half the copies, I'm drawing what I see when I think of spirals, which is to say as close as I can get to this Raymond Pettibon painting which I wrote about in Turtles All The Way Down .  I figure that spirals, even if I don't want them to be my signature move, sort of are .  So that's about half of them, and then on the other half I'm writing DFTBA in the infinite shadow created by the Carl .  By the way, that strikes me as an extremely metaphorically resonant infinite shadow . I know that neither of these moves is Hanklerfish-level quality, but it's the best I've got and if you pre-order a signed copy of Hank's book you have a five percent chance of getting one of those things .   And also a 1 in 40000 chance of getting this one sheet that Hank forgot to sign, so I wrote a note and tried to recreate Hank's signature on it . Hank, congratulations on your book and that amazing review .  Months after first reading it I still think about it all the time .   And I really think it's a book that might change the world for the better .  There are links in the doobly-doo below to order signed copies of An Absolutely Remarkable Thing .  I am gonna go watch the World Cup and make some spirals .  Hank, I will see you on Friday .  
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  Here's a joke that David Foster Wallace made famous in a commencement address .  These two young fish are swimming along, and an older fish swims by and says,  " Morning, boys !  How's the water ?  "   And the two young fish just kind of look at each other, and then keep swimming .   And then after a while, one says to the other,  " What the hell is water ?  "  To ruin a perfectly good joke by explaining it, the conceit here is that most of us do not know what we are swimming in, and cannot contextualize our reality with the clarity or sophistication of the wise, older fish .  I was 23 when I first heard this joke, and at the time I believed that adulthood was a process through which one became the wise, older fish .   And so I spent a lot of time listening to people who purported to be that wise, older fish - people who could tell me the real reality of the world in which I found myself .  Some of these people were aggressively religious, some were aggressively atheistic .  Some were conservative, some were liberal, but what they had in common was a certainty that I found almost desperately attractive .  They all told me that once I really opened my eyes, I would see for myself that this is water .  Jesus is water, or anti-theism is water .  Rigid social hierarchies are water, or radical egalitarianism is water .  Low-fat diets are water, or low-carb diets are .   And all of it was compelling to me because I so wanted to be the wise fish .  In fact, if you look at old Vlogbrothers videos, or even more recent ones probably, you can see me trying to assume that role .  I dole out advice as if I know what I'm doing, or make pronouncements about internet life, as if I have any idea where social media is taking us .   And I expound upon my many certainties, when I find my actual life to be defined mostly by uncertainty .  I've often thought that if I just pretended to be the wise, older fish, I would eventually become it .   But while I do think that you can fake your way through most of adult life, I don't think you can fake your way to enlightenment .   And the truth is, especially when it comes to the weirdnesses of 21st century life, I have no idea what we are swimming in .  I don't know if the social internet is good or bad .  I don't know if outrage eventually leads to better human lives .   And I definitely don't know, like, when to follow back, or how to get that just-right makeup look for the first day of school .   But here's the thing: I don't think anybody else knows either .  These days, one of the few things I feel certain about is that I don't trust people who are extremely certain about things .  I'm 40 now, and one of the benefits of middle-age for me is that rather than feeling compelled by those claiming to be the wise, older fish, I'm suspicious of them .  Now, that's not to say that enlightenment or capital-A Awareness are impossible .  I just think they're, you know, pretty uncommon .  I think most of us will continue to struggle, on one level or another, to apprehend the colorless, odorless, transparent stuff that we're swimming in .  Which is okay .  You can keep swimming anyway, and you can keep asking what the hell water is .  Sometimes you'll ask that question in desperation and fear, seeking reassurance that this water won't harm you, reassurance you can never really find because the water will harm you .  Sometimes you'll ask the question in awe or wonder, sometimes in bemusement or frustration, and sometimes in joy .  How can this water be so beautiful ?  So euphoric ?  So heart-breaking ?  So terrifying ?  I mean, what the hell is this ?  You will keep asking the question, and you will stay the young fish .   But maybe asking the question is its own kind of answer .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank . It's Tuesday .  I'm currently on vacation in the house behind me, but that house is full of screaming children, so I am filming in the vast expanse known as  " outside .  "  I recommend  " outside, "  although there is no climate control, which is a little annoying .  And, because I've been on vacation, I've had three entire days away from the Internet, which has left me wondering: how does this end ?  Like, there's this great Molly Louis song from maybe-ten years ago in which the chorus goes:  " I hope that you forget about your MySpace; I hope it slips completely from your mind, and I hope it stays up long enough for the next generation to find .  "   And that song has proved kind of stunningly prophetic, so much so that I suspect a number of young people watching this either won't know what MySpace is or else only have a vague notion of it as a precursor to Facebook .   And, yet, my MySpace is still there, a minor museum to my 2007 self, complete with a profile pic advertising the forthcoming publication of Paper Towns . So, is that how things end on the Internet ?  Still sort of present, but relevant only as nostalgia ?   And will that happen to one or more of the social media du jour, to Twitter, or Facebook, or YouTube ? Like, YouTube has survived and thrived through many difficult times in the past .  The sub feed has always been broken' the new design has always been vile; the relationship between creators and the platform has always been fraught .   And I don't think YouTube is about to MySpace, but then again, one never sees the future coming . Philip Roth called history  " the relentless unforeseen, "  and that's true of so much of life .  We don't know how it's going to end, or for that matter, how it's going to middle .  I think YouTube faces big problems; I think it's too heavily reliant on flawed algorithms, and I think its monetization system often values advertisers over audience, but I also think that YouTube is amazing, and that there's more good stuff uploaded than ever . Of course, my real concern is not how YouTube ends, it's how our YouTube ends .  Some day, this YouTube channel won't be here, just as we won't be here, and lately, I've been wondering when you want to say goodbye online, and how to do so, none of which is to say that I'm unhappy or want to stop making Vlogbrothers videos, because I don't, I just don't want to be making YouTube videos when I'm 80 .  Well, or maybe I do . Like, if you told me in 2007 that 40-year-old me would still be making YouTube videos, I would be both incredulous and horrified .   " How, "  I would wonder,  " could I possibly subject an audience to my hideous, 40-year old face ?  "   And yet here I am, so grateful for the 11-and-a-half years of conversation I've been able to have here, and I hope it long continues, but when it does end, I hope it ends well .  Hank, you recently pointed out to me that if Vlogbrothers were a TV show, we would be in our twelfth season, which is a very long run on television, and also a fairly long run for YouTube channels .  As time passes, even good shows become less broadly relevant and less central to the overall cultural discourse, and more targeted to a smaller-but deeply engaged-audience, and I feel like that happened with Vlogbrothers, and it's been really good news for us . Like, these days, the people who watch our videos want to be here; they aren't pushed here by the Trending page or whatever .  They're here because they're nerdfighters .  That is what makes it fun for me . So, in thinking about how this YouTube channel will end, I'm mostly thinking about how to keep the conversation entertaining and fun, both for ourselves and for our audience .  To that end, I have both a question and a request .  The question is: what do you get out of Vlogbrothers' videos ? Like, what makes this a meaningful experience for you, and what makes your time with us and other nerdfighters valuable, and what should we be looking to change or not change ?  I guess that's not just one question; I have a few questions .  The request is, uh, well, I've been working for this company for twelve years and I would like three weeks of unpunished vacation per year . I'm not going to use it right now, or all at once, but yeah .  I would really benefit from three weeks of vacation per year .  That's it ! That's why I made the whole video, was so that I could ask my employer for three weeks of unpunished vacation .  There is a survey in the doobly-doo below; I will abide by its results .  I'm going to go back to vacation now . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  I recently became intensely interested in a question .  'What was the most recent year in which the overall global population of humans declined ? ' I don't even remember why I was initially curious about this but I was, and I couldn't figure it out despite some pretty deep Googling and a visit to the library, so eventually I asked Max Roser who works at my favorite website, Our World in Data, but he didn't know either .  One of his colleagues however, Hannah Richie, did find an answer .  The last time the global human population decreased year over year was 1648, and the story of 1648 turns out to be really interesting and also like, uh, relevant .  Ok, so the global human population actually decreased every year between 1608 and 1648 part of a period sometimes known as The General Crisis, which I would say is an example of historians being terrible at naming things, except that it was a rather general crisis .  From Africa, to Asia, to Europe, to the Americas, there was quite a lot of crisis going on which is a little weird because overall the human species was getting much wealthier and better connected .  Like for instance, there was much more silver because European empires especially the Spanish Empire were extracting it from colonies in the Americas . There was also a much broader range of food available .  Rice and wheat had just come to the Americas and everything from pineapples to cassava to potatoes had come to afro-eurasia .   And you would think with more money and more food there would be more people .   But no . For one thing the Columbian Exchange also brought devastation .  Perhaps more than 90% of Native Americans were killed in the centuries after Europeans arrived mostly from diseases that were new to the Americas like smallpox and diphtheria .  That population decline began around 1500 but lasted throughout the general crisis .   And then there was the Atlantic slave trade which was growing throughout the general crisis with horrific consequences of its own .  Around 15% of Africans died in slave ships on the journey to the Americas and those who didn't saw their life expectancies severely diminished .   And I think it's worth noting that many of the crops that relied on slave labor, like coffee and tobacco, were not necessary to sustain human life .  They were basically luxury goods .  So maybe more access to luxury goods indicated that humanity was getting wealthier but that doesn't necessarily mean that on average human life was getting better .  In fact, despite the influx of wealth European populations were also declining largely due to the 30 Years War, one of the longest and deadliest wars in European history, which is really saying something .  The war killed through combat and famine around 20% of people in what is now Germany and as many as a third of people in what are now Poland and Lithuania .  Meanwhile Spain, which had become phenomenally wealthy from all that silver, defaulted on its debts repeatedly during the general crisis because they didn't understand inflation and all that silver caused a lot of it .  But the single biggest contributor to 17th century population decline was the collapse of the Ming Dynasty in China .  Between 1600 and 1644 when the Ching dynasty began, China's population decreased by 50 million people .   And that was also partly due to humanity's newfound abundance of silver .  The Ming government required people to pay taxes in silver which meant more people had to spend more hours working at making goods that could be sold for silver which meant lower agricultural yields .  Also, the Ming Dynasty, like Spain, failed to understand inflation, all of which led to famine . One more thing that made the general crisis so general and crisis-y, at the time earth experienced significant climate change .  It's sometimes called the Little Ice Age .  Global temperatures dropped on average around one degree Celsius which also contributed to famines .   But don't worry it's not like .  .  .  oh .  it is like .  Hank, since the general crisis humanity has experienced its longest ever run of population growth, increased life expectancy, and decreased poverty .   But the early 17th century is a reminder that progress is never simple, or universal, or guaranteed .  It's a reminder that a changing climate can fuel global instability and that growing connectivity and wealth is only good news for humans once we learn to live with and share that growth .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
The cicada situation is out of control . Oh, good morning Hank, it's Tuesday, so when we last visited the garden it was mostly dirt, but now there are zucchini and sunflowers and these weird dragon tongue beans .  We've got eggplants and oregano, and most of all we have tomatoes .  We've got black cherry tomatoes, we've got red cherry tomatoes, we've got these weird guys, and we've also got a metric crap ton of golden currants, which are tiny little tomatoes not much larger than a pea .  Why did I get so many tomato plants that make tiny tomatoes ?  Because I wanna eat 211 tomatoes in a single sitting .  One, two .  .  .  five .  .  .  this is gonna take a while .  I have picked the tomatoes .  It took thirty four minutes and I am drenched in sweat .  Let's go inside .  Actually you know what, before we go picking all of those tomatoes has made me wanna eat a tomato, so I'm going to .  Hold on .  Mmm, delicious .  I'm gonna have another one .  Mmm .  New video title,  " How to Eat 213 Tomatoes in a Single Sitting "  . Okay, so the first thing you're gonna want to do is lay out your bountiful harvest and then consider all of the time, energy, and sweat that went into the creation of this 900 calories of food .  Then, give thanks to actual farm workers .   And then count out exactly 211 tomatoes because people on the internet are sticklers about that stuff .  So, today, we're going to make panzanella, which is essentially tomatoes with croutons .  To make the croutons, you wanna preheat the oven to 350 degrees, being careful not to look at your ghoulish reflection . Then take a pan, tear up some good bread, put it in four-ish cloves of minced garlic, some olive oil, and then I think the technical term is you just sort of 'hoosh' it .  And then once it's adequately 'hooshed', put it in the oven and cook it for, I don't know, like 15 minutes .  Then you're gonna want to chop up all of your non-golden currant tomatoes and .  .  .  boom .  It was at this point that I realized that even 211 small tomatoes is still lot of tomatoes . I googled  " Can eating too many tomatoes kill you ?  "  and it turns out, probably not, but it can turn your skin orange .  Incidentally, you may not think you like tomatoes .  I thought I hated them until my late twenties, but it turned out I had just never had a good one . Tomatoes are one of the very few foods where the good version is essentially like a different thing than the bad version .  Another example would be the difference between actual Lucky Charms and knock-off Lucky Charms .  So let's go back to the recipe . Right, so, you wanna put all your tomatoes in a large bowl, add some balsamic vinegar, less olive oil than I just used, some salt and pepper, and then 'hoosh' .  The secret to panzanella is the crunch of the croutons combined with the juiciness of the tomatoes, so it doesn't keep well once mixed .  If you want leftovers, you need to keep them separate and then add them together as you go . So once your croutons are toasty, mix a handful with a handful of tomatoes, put some sliced basil on the top, and you've got yourself an excellent meal .  I ate around a hundred tomatoes at lunch, and then Sarah and I split the remaining tomatoes at dinner .  Three great meals and my skin did not even turn orange . Now, I just gotta figure out what to do with those zucchini . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Goodmorning Hank, it's Tuesday .  Although I'm filming this 5 days ago, a past so distant I'm sure we're already looking back on it with fondness . Anyway today's video is like the Saturn V rocket, it comes to you in three parts of which the first part is by far the longest . Part one: other John Greens . Not to brag but over the last forty years I've become something of an expert in the field of people named John Green, so today I thought I would introduce you to six of my favourite John Greens who aren't me . First, John Green the Bigfoot expert . Often called one of the  " Four Horsemen of Sasquatchery " , John Green was a small town newspaper publisher until the age of 45, when he left his career behind to become a full time Bigfoot researcher .  John Green went on to write several book arguing that large human like apes roamed the woods of North America, including  " Year of the Sasquatch " , which I actually own .  It's not bad .  Fun fact: John Green once wrote into Mental Floss magazine after I implied in an article that Bigfoot didn't exist, saying that I had besmirched the good name of John Greens everywhere . Secondly we have Professor John Green .  This John Green has a great beard and just recently became the interim president of the University of Akron . John Green is a professor of political science who researches the intersection between religion and politics in American life, so .  .  . you know that'll keep you busy . Then there's John Green the artist, who's maybe my favourite John Green because he is the co-creator of the amazing graphic novel series  " Teenboat " , which is about a young man who has all of the normal problems of being a teenager but also occasionally turns into a yacht . John Green has said:  " It's the only comic that features the angst of being a teen and the thrill of being a boat .  " John Green also does lots of art for comics and video games, you've probably seen his work . Fourth we have another book-ish John Green, sticker and coloring book author John Green, who has been haunting me since 1998 when the bookstore at my college began to sell his sticker books .  I don't know much about this John Green except that I think he's into horses .  .  .  ? His books include  " Horses Tattoo " ,  " Favourite Horses Stickers " ,  " Little Horses Stained Glass Coloring Book "  and both  " Horses of the World "  and  " Wonderful World of Horses "  .  Which seems a little redundant to me, but I'm not here to criticize, that guy has published more books about horses than i have published books . Fifth, John Green the designer .  This British John Green makes excellent furniture .  For instance he created the cool Embrace coffee table, which works two ways .   And then lastly, we have John Green the cinematographer, who is technically a John Green, even if he does go by Jack .  John Green has often been the director of photography for movies directed by Clint Eastwood, in fact he was nominated for an Oscar for  " Unforgiven "  .   But he's also been the cinematographer for a huge range of movies .  He's worked on good movies like  " Twister "  and  " Speed 2 "  .  He's worked on great movies, like  " The Net "  .   And he's worked on all time classics like  " Rookie of the Year "  .  That's not a joke by the way,  " Rookie of the Year "  is a phenomenal movie, don't @ me .  .  .  . Did that sound hip and young ? Slight side note: that John Greens has not yet won an Oscar, but John Greens as a whole have .  In fact John Green the composer won four Academy Awards and also one Grammy .  Meanwhile John Green the TV producer has won three Emmys, meaning that we are only one Tony Award away from a John Green EGOT ! Based on my singing and acting talents I don't think I'm going to be the one to win it, but maybe that sticker book guy is in the new Cats . Part two: The Tour . Hank, in September and October you are going on the road in support of your brilliant first novel  " An Absolutely Remarkable Thing "  which comes out September 25th and is available for pre-order now .  And I will be joining you in New York, Boston, North Canton  , Kansas City, Chicago and Indianapolis . I am so excited for the tour it is gonna be a blast, ticket info in the doobly-doo below .  And lastly, part three .  You are likely familiar with the phrase  " Don't Forget To Be Awesome " , but do you remember the our catchphrase was in fact invented not by us, but by my friend Katie Else in 2007 .  Katie is an acclaimed singer of Irish music and her new album  " Songs from Across the Lake and Sea "  has just come out .  It is beautiful and haunting and just wonderful .  There's a link to her music in the doobly-doo below . Hank, I will see you on Friday .                 
If you hold your phone camera up to this QR code it takes you to a website to register to vote .  That's pretty cool .  I like this shirt but I'm going to change into my standard 2-button polo . Ah yes, there's the comfort of familiarity .  Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday . So I've been thinking recently about how weird English is, especially when it comes to prepositions .  Like we use 'in', 'on', and 'at' as location related prepositions, which is just so weird .  The general idea is that 'in' is for big places and 'on' is for smaller places and 'at' is for extremely specific places .  So you live IN a country but ON a street and AT a particular address, which is a lot to remember but it's even more complicated than that because, for instance, one lives IN a house or apartment because you're extensively surrounded by it or inside of it .   But you also live AT home, unless you live AT school IN a dorm room ON a campus . Similarly, you can be both AT the airport and IN the airport but you can't be ON the airport, unless you're like Godzilla standing on the airport .   And you can be IN the airplane or ON the airplane but you can't be AT the airplane, although you can be AT the gate .   And even though 'in' is supposed to be for large places you can be IN your airplane seat, which is one of the smallest places in the known universe .   And to make it worse all these words have other meanings and shades of meaning .  Like 'in' can refer to a change of state: you break something IN half .   But it's mostly used to describe being within or inside something .  'On' generally means on top of something, hence being IN a car but ON a motorcycle .   But 'on' can also be used to describe the state of something .  For instance, you can be IN a car that is ON fire, although I don't recommend it .   Meanwhile, something that happens to my body superficially usually uses 'on': I was tapped ON the shoulder, whereas something that happens beneath the skin usually uses 'in': I was shot IN the shoulder .   But even those incredibly complicated and obscure rules sometimes don't apply, see for instance being slapped in the face .  This is an altogether terrible system for expressing ideas, but generally I don't notice it because I grew up speaking English and its labyrinthine usage seems completely normal to me .  I only notice preposition choice when it feels wrong to me .  Like, one that's always bothered me is ON the phone .  Why do we say ON the phone to mean, not that we're standing on our phones, but that we're using them .  'On the phone' used to mean 'participating in a phone call' but these days there are all sorts of ways to be on your phone .  You can be texting on your phone, or looking at Instagram on your phone, or playing Fortnite on your phone or whatever .   But I would argue that no matter what you're doing on your phone you're not really ON the phone, you're IN the phone . When I'm using my phone I'm not really IN whatever physical space I happen to be occupying, and I'm not really WITH whatever physical people I'm near: I'm in the phone with people who are also in their phones .   And when I exit my phone and enter physical space, it doesn't feel like I'm getting OFF my phone, it feels like I'm getting OUT of it .   And this was the case for me long before my phone contained so many distractions and delights and horrors .  Like, when I was a kid and I would talk on the phone to friends I always felt like I was not in my house or in my room, but I was in some disembodied space with the person I was talking to .   But now, because there so much more to do in my phone and also because there's so many more people in that disembodied space, being in my phone feels thrilling and terrifying and overwhelming and most of all, weird .  Like I'm not sure of the language to describe it, not only which prepositions to use, but also which adjectives, which nouns .  I don't know if understanding leads to language or language leads to understanding, but when it comes to life in my phone, I don't have adequate understanding or adequate language .  All I know is that life on my phone feels much more like being IN a city than being ON an island . Hank, I'll see you, not in a week, or at noon, but on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday ! I really liked your video on Friday about how to make friends in adulthood and today I thought I would follow-up with some personal experience on the topic .  I like to spend time by myself .  like most of my hobbies are things generally done alone: reading, writing, gardening, listening to podcasts, contemplating the relationship between myself and the bacteria that colonize me .   And also I get anxious in situations with lots of new people .  Not primarily because of my mental illness i don't think, but because lots of people find social engagements nervous-making, especially when you're going to them alone .   And that also means i'm often not like my best self in those situations .  Like, I'm often self-concious about how much I'm talking or how little or how much I'm sweating or whatever and that makes it difficult to be in the conversation .  On the other hand, I really like being with close friends and family .  I love the comfort and warmth of those deep connections and they are super important to me .  The problem, of course, is that if you don't already have those deep connections, it can be difficult to find them without putting yourself in those nervous situations where sweat just sprouts from your forehead like so many seeds out of a well tilled soil .   And then, in part because you're nervous, you struggle to engage deeply and then you go home and you're like,  " Oh my god, I don't want to do that again .  "  So Sarah and I moved to Indianapolis in 2007, and I know almost no one here .  I was what is sometimes called a  " trailing spouse "  because we'd moved here for Sarah's job .  She quickly made great friends at work, but I struggled to make friends at work on account of how I was working alone in my basement .  I did try to make friends .  I volunteered for things, attended events, accepted every invitation - all the things I'd read on the internet you were supposed to do to make friends, but none of it worked .   And I became discouraged pretty quickly because all of those social engagements were really draining and it just seemed like Indianapolis wasn't the kind of place for me .  It felt to me like everyone here had known everyone else since grade school .   And then a few months after moving, we received an invitation to attend the big annual neighborhood get-together on our street .   And I didn't want to go, because I had tried to make friends through social events and it didn't work .  Plus everyone on our street was kind of old, like 40, and they had like kids and stuff .   But Sarah really wanted to go, so we did and, as I expected, everyone was super old and had kids and stuff and I was sweaty and nervous and struggling to participate in conversations and after about half an hour, I was definitely ready to go .   But then a guy came up to me and introduced himself .  He was about my age, but not my size .  He looked like Vince Vaughn and Vincent D'Onofrio ahd had a huge baby .  His name was Chris and his fiancee Marina was at the party as well, and we all started talking .  I was still sweaty and still nervous, but we were talking .  We talked about Chris's time in the Peace Corps and my time as a hospital chaplain .  We talked about living in Indianapolis and living on a street full of old people .   And then in an awkward moment near the end of the night, I asked for Chris's number, and he gave it to me .  Now it didn't happen all at once .  It wasn't like love at first sight or whatever .   But as we began to hang out with Chris and Marina more, I began to hate Indianapolis less .  They both worked from home at the time and we would often go out to lunch together, which meant that astonishingly enough I sort of had work friends . Mariana was compassionate and incredibly thoughtful - the kind of person who always makes you feel heard, and cared for .   And Chris was hilarious and charismatic, but also deeply loyal .  He knew I was lonely .   And so he invited me to join his IndyCar fantasy league and to come over to his house to watch TV all the time .   And so through my friendship with Chris, I made more friends until eventually I wanted to stay in Indianapolis for good, because towns are made out of people in the end .   And I've come to love a lot of people in this one .  I didn't want to go to that neighborhood party because I'd tried going to things .  I'd tried to make friends .   And I thought I had failed .  In fact, though, I just hadn't succeeded yet .  This week Chris and Marina and Sarah and I are celebrating 11 years of our friendship .   And now, we are the old people with kids and stuff at the neighborhood party, and I couldn't be more grateful .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                  
Gooood Morning Hank it's Tuesday . It's question Tuesday, the day that I answer a prime number of real questions from real nerdfighters .  Let's get right to it . What specific piece of art had a big impact on your life ?  This painting, which opened me up to the idea that there might be some kind of like, direct form or expression for the deeply abstract and difficult to describe problem I have inside my brain .  What's your third favorite type of rock ? Um, Dwaine Johnson, in roll, of gibraltar; the rock of gibraltar is my third favorite type of rock .  Any news on the Looking for Alaska series ?  Yes, and my first novel Looking for Alaska is going to be adapted into a limited series on Hulu . It's still happening, I've read the script for the first episode .  It's great .   And that's about all I know . Oh !  I do know one other thing, which is that in addition to not casting movies, I do not cast Hulu shows .  Favorite song by the Mountain Goats ? It's always changing, but at the moment my favorite is a song called  "  Weekend in Western Illinois "  .  How do you measure success ?  What did I learn, and who did it help ? What are you geeking out about these days ?  This novel by Tommy Orange .  Dr . Benjie FM's YouTube series in which he is the manager of a fictional football team .  I have never been so invested in a series of pixels .   And the new season of the podcast In the Dark . Best prime number ?  I've Always been partial to 37 .  Hey, why don't any of your book shave a prime number of chapters ? Right, so that is an inside joke I have with myself .  All of my books have a number of chapters that is equal to a prime number minus one   .  The Fault in Our Stars and Turtles All the Way Down both have 24 chapters, 23 is prime . Will Grayson Will Grayson and An Abundance of Katherines both have 20 chapters, 19 is prime .  Paper Towns if your count the prologue has 32 chapters, 31 is prime .   And Looking for Alaska has 60 chapters is you count the author's note, 59 is prime . Now that I'm saying this out loud it's a little weird .  Wait, what other inside jokes do you have ?  I don't know, there's a bunch of them . Books take me a long time to write, so I have to find a way to entertain myself .  Like one example is that I use the word deadpan wayyy too many times in Looking for Alaska, and so in every book since I've used it exactly once .  Are you writing a new book ? Sometimes, but not usually .  What are your most used emojis ?  I'm not sure what this says about me . When does the Project for Awesome start this year ?  December 7th, so mark your calendars and block out that weekend if you can .  This is a question from my four-year-old kid . Can you eat light ?  Yeah, I mean in a roundabout way you literally can't eat anything else .  Why do people think pineapple pizza is bad ? I write half an episode of my podcast, The Anthropocene Reviewed, about this .  Link in the doobly-do below .   But did you know that pineapple on pizza was invented in 1962 by a Greek immigrant living in Canada, who was inspired by Chinese cuisine to put a South American food on an Italian dish ? Pineapple pizza is peak Anthropocene, for better and for worse .  What are you excited about right now ?  I really love making the Anthropocene Reviewed actually . Also I'm so so excited to go on tour with Hank in September .  I don't know the next time we're gonna get to tour together and I love it .  So, I'm just gonna try to relish it . I should say by the way that tickets are selling out in many places, so now is the time to get them at HankGreen . com .  How excited are you for AFC Wimbledon's new season ?  Very ! Also, all our advertisements in the stadium are now advertisements for An Absolutely Remarkable Thing, so Hank you'll definitely that coveted demographic of third-teer English football supporters .   And finally, are you ever gonna win at Fortnite ?  Right, so I play Fortnite as a pacifist over on Hank Games because I refuse to let the epic game company turn me into a violent monster .  And I will continue to play Fortnite as a pacifist until I win .  Or else people just get bored with Fortnite and stop playing .  Probably that one . Thanks to Tuataria for making this glorious Pizza John in Fortnite playground mode .  Links to everything discussed in this video in the doobly-do below .  Hank I will see you on Friday . P .  S .  if you count the intro and the outro and this, it's a prime plus one .  Bye !                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . So few weeks ago, I had to get a tetanus shot, because I was trying to harvest some green beans and I accidentally harvested part of my abdomen .  It was an easy trip to the doctor, but while I was there, I kept thinking about all the systems that had to be in place for me to get that tetanus shot .  Like, there had to be a system of roads and highways and bridges for me to get to the clinic, and a system of gasoline distribution to fuel my car, and a electric system which is necessary to keep the lights on and refrigerate my tetanus vaccine .  A sewage treatment system allows for sanitary hand-washing and there's the system that trains and license healthcare workers and a system that manufactures and distributes the astonishing number of goods associated with my tetanus vaccine .  I don't just mean the needles and the syringe and the vaccine itself, but also a cotton ball and Band-Aid and an alcohol wipe-out and gloves for the healthcare worker .  In the dearly grind of daily life, most of us do not talk or think much about systems, because, you know, they're boring .  Like, medical breakthrough are fascinating, improving supply chains so that medical breakthroughs that need to be refrigerated can stay refrigerated ?  not as fascinating .  Still, I would argue that healthy system are kind of the key to healthy and productive human lives .  They are so central, and so interdependent, that improving them can need to this massive virtuous cycle .  You can look at almost any country and see this, but let's consider, say, Thailand .  Between 1994 and 2014, Thailand's childhood mortality rate decreased by more than 55% .  So what got better ?  Everything .  Everything got better .  Transportation systems got better, healthcare delivery systems got better, water treatment systems got better, agricultural efficiency got better, because better health means more people working, which means a bigger economy, which means more tax revenue to invest things like still better health, and also, say, better roads .  Better roads makes health care and food delivery and everything else cheaper and faster .  Better agricultural yields and food delivery systems means better health, which means more people working, which grows the economy and so on . So, okay, let's just improve all the systems, but, yeah, of course it's not that easy .  Like, let's look at Sierra Leone for instance, about 11% similar percentage-wise to, like, the UK, Australia or France, but because Sierra Leone is so much poorer country, 11% of their GDP is equal to $54 per person per year for healthcare .  I paid $75 just for that tetanus shot, which admittedly is extortion, but still $54 per person per year is not enough to fund a robust healthcare system .   And just as healthy systems can create virtuous cycles, weak systems can create vicious ones .  If a country has very little tax revenue to build systems and lacks the political and economic stability necessary to attract private enterprise, system can weaken, which means less political and economic stability . Like imagine you are in the same situation I was in, needing a tetanus shot, but in a community with much weaker systems .  You may have to travel on bad roads, because the transportation system isn't strong .  The clinic might be understaffed, because the health worker training and employment system isn't strong .   But even if the clinic is adequately staffed and supplied, your tetanus shot might be ineffective, because it wasn't adequately refrigerated, because there wasn't electricity .  Investments that take a really narrow view on healthcare, like healthcare is only tetanus shots, may not improving that situation much .   And that's one of the reasons I admire Partners in Health so much, which nerdfighteria has been working with for a decade now, Partners in Health is systems-focused .  They do not, like, drop in with solutions .  They listen to and invest in communities .   And while learning about global health over the last several years, I've seen again and again that these fragile systems can get better, and that focus on health in the largest sense of the world can improve every aspect of a community's life .  Of course, investing in fragile systems sometime fails and progress is often not simple or linear, but it is real .  So let's stay excited about breakthroughs and innovations that would improve human life, but let us not forget the humble system that literally keeps the light on . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  Several great books by people I know have recently been adapted into movies, or will be soon, and today I thought I would talk about misconceptions around that process .  But first, some personal news .  I have just read a screenplay adaptationof my book Turtles All the Way Down, written by Elizabeth Berger and Isaac Aptaker, who wrote Love, Simon .   And it's a really beautiful script and I'm excited now because I think it might actually become a movie .   But I am also nervous which I'll explain later .  But first, almost always book authors make exactly one decision in the movie creation process, which is whether to sell the rights to their book .  If you don't sell the rights, no one can make a movie .  If you do sell the rights the people you sell the rights to can usually make whatever movie they want to . Like after I sold the film rights for The Fault in Our Stars to Fox 2000 they could have set the movie on Mars .  Only very occasionally do authors get approval over the casting or the script or the director or anything .  Now some authors, and I am lucky to be among them, do get a seat at the table when those big decisions are being made .   But you get one seat and it is a big table . Which, by the way, is often good news because I think usually casting directors are better at casting movies than authors are .  Like when the casting for The Fault in Our Stars was announced people were really, really mad that Nat Wolff was gonna play Isaac because Isaac has blond hair in the book .   And I was also concerned about that .   But then, in point of fact, Nat Wolff turned out to be the perfect Isaac and also he is a national treasure and one of my all-time favorite people Now of course sometimes bad decisions get made but that's rarely the fault of one person, and authors often get criticism for decisions they didn't make and cannot control .  I don't just mean casting, but also when and where a movie is shot, which in the U . S .  is determined mostly by tax incentives .  Or when and where a movie is released, which is determined by marketing executives that most authors never meet .  Authors are, however, often asked to communicate those decisions to fans of the book, which can be a difficult thing to navigate and I have messed it up a lot in the past, hence part of my aforementioned nervousness . Which brings me to a second misconception, that movie studios do not care about fans of the book .  In my experience, anyway, they care a lot about fans of the book .  They just can't care exclusively about them .  Like my third novel Paper Towns made the New York Times bestseller list and sold much much better than either of my previous books .  Paper Towns sold about 50,000 copies in its first year, which was amazing .   But if movie sells 50,000 tickets in its opening weekend it is almost definitely going to lose a lot of money .  In fact, even selling 500,000 tickets in an opening weekend is usually considered a failure . So studios have to balance the concerns of fans with the need to reach a much larger audience than most books reach .  That's one of the reasons books can do so many things that movies can't do .  I mean, even cheap movies usually cost like plural millions of dollars to make, whereas books can be financially viable on a much smaller scale .   And also the cost of writing a car chase scene with robots that are on fire is the same as the cost of writing any other scene .   And yet, even though it's free, I've still never succeeded at writing a car chase scene with burning robots .  I will someday .  Who are you kidding it's never gonna happen .  You can't write plot .   " Welcome to my book .  Two people are talking in a room .  Sometimes they go outside .  " Lastly, I'm not sure it's fair to say that the book is always better than the movie .  The book is different from the movie .  It has to be .  I don't really think there's such a thing as a faithful adaptation, because you're turning scratches on a page into visible humans speaking audible words .  The life a written story has in the mind of its reader will always be intensely personal in a way that movies can't be .   And movies will always engage the senses of sight and hearing in a way that books can't .  Movies are literally sensational .   And so for me the question is not is the plot the exact same or does the actor look like the character I imagined .  Because if you go to a movie expecting to see a book, you're always gonna be at least a little disappointed .   But a great movie adaptation can explore the same questions as a book and it can crack you open in the same places and it can give you that same self expanding experience of empathy .  In the end a movie will never succeed at being a great book but it can be a great movie .  If you have questions about the book to movie process, please leave them in comments I'll answer as many as I can .  Hank, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday .  I'm a little bit stressed at the moment and, as such, I have been thinking about the Eisenhower Matrix . Like most people, I have a wide array of urgent problems .  I have to get my kids to school .  I have deadlines for editing CrashCourse scripts .  I need to respond to emails that literally have  " urgent "  in the subject line .  I have an urgent desire to eat several times a day .   And those urgent problems are so numerous and so immediate that it is really hard for me to find time to do things that are important but not urgent, even if they are more important than any of my urgent problems . There are many examples of this: updating my will is important, but hopefully not urgent, as is clearing honeysuckle from my backyard .   But the biggest important not-urgent issue in my life is writing a novel, partly because writing fiction is my number one strategy for maximizing sanity, and partly because it's you know, like, my job .   But even though writing a new book is much more important to me than, say, paying the cable bill or responding to an email that proclaims itself to be urgent, I end up forsaking the important in favor of the urgent until the important but not urgent problems just become these vast expanses of dread that I only visit late at night when I can do nothing about them . I think this may also be a broader human phenomenon .  We are much better at addressing emergencies like disease outbreaks or natural disasters than we are at addressing ongoing problems that don't feel like emergencies .  The most obvious example I can think of is probably climate change, which is maybe the biggest problem facing humans, and yet we constantly de-prioritize it in favor of whatever news happens to be breaking and therefore in need of our immediate attention .   All of which brings me to the Eisenhower Matrix, sometimes called the Eisenhower square or box and named for US general and eventual president Dwight D .  Eisenhower .  So this is the box that you put all of your problems you can conceivably fix into on a scale of important to not important and urgent to not urgent . Things that are both urgent and important you do now, so if your kitchen is on fire, for instance, that needs to be addressed immediately .  Or if AFC Wimbeldon are playing that needs to be watched live and with complete focus .  The things that are urgent but not important you are supposed to delegate, but of course that's very easy if you're a general or a president and somewhat more difficult if you're not .  Most of us cannot delegate laundry or paying bills or sending emails, but we can ignore the faux urgent demands on our time like push notifications .   And some urgent but less important tasks can be automated, like paying bills online instead of writing checks . The not important and not urgent things we're just supposed to just not do, like, for me that would be every second spent on Twitter .   But that's just me .  Twitter makes lots of people happy and we need to leave room for happiness .  A lot of conversations about productivity don't make room for, like, joy .  Which is unfortunate because I would argue life is not about becoming the most efficient problem solving value creation machine you can become, it's also about fulfillment and enjoyment, so if there are unimportant un-urgent things you love they aren't actually unimportant .  Right, so then lastly there is the important but not urgent: updating your will, writing your novel, exercise, connecting with people you love, etc .  The Eisenhower Matrix argues that the key to addressing those issues is scheduling uninterrupted and uninterruptable time for them .  Put it on the calendar, create deadlines, make that stuff urgent .  That's how I wrote my first novel .  I gave myself deadlines and scheduled time at night and on the weekends to write it .   And it's how I'm gonna write my next novel, if there is a next one . My parents introduced me to this strategy for the urgent and the important when I was a kid, and I have found it very helpful throughout my life, even though on a minute-by-minute basis it is very difficult to implement .  But I'm gonna keep trying .  I was talking to a friend recently who's much busier than I am and I said  " I know you've got to go, you've got a lot going on, "  and they said  " No, no .  I've got nothing but time .  "  and I realized how true that is . Hank, I'll see you on Friday                
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . I really liked your video on Friday about sibling rivalry and competition, and it made me think about participation trophies . Like, today's young people are sometimes called a  " participation trophy generation "  who expect to be lavished with praise for even the smallest accomplishments and rewarded for failure . That kind of pseudo-cultural analysis always oversimplifies, of course, but I feel like I might have some insight into participation trophy culture because I had a profound and literal experience with it decades before it was a thing . The year: 1984 .  I'm seven years old, and I am a baseball player .  Specifically, I am the oldest player on my Little League t-ball team .  In t-ball the ball was not pitched, instead it's placed on a tee to make it easier to hit . Most kids my age had moved on from t-ball - but not me .  The thing about my childhood sporting adventures is that even though I was a terrible athlete, I loved sports .  Like, I was so passionate .  .  .  and also so hopeless . Like, I went on to play for my middle school soccer team, and I remember in one game I came off the bench like midway through the first half, and I was feeling really good about myself because usually I didn't get in until we were up or down by at least five goals .   And then at halftime the coach said,  " You know why I put Green on ?  Because at least he cares .  "  I was like a motivational tool . Anyway, back to t-ball .  I had a pretty good season that year, owing to the fact that I was one to three years older than all of my fellow competitors .   And then came the end-of-season awards banquet .  Like all the other kids, I got a small participation award - but then they started handing out the real trophies: the ones that you got if you were selected for the t-ball all-star team .  .  .  which I was not .  But then the coach said,  " and this year's alternates for the all-star team are: some kid's name, and John Green .  "  I was an all-ternate star - an almost star - should an all-star get injured or otherwise be indisposed, I would become an all-star .   And if we won the all-star game, I would get a trophy . There was only one problem: our family was scheduled to be out of town during the all-star game visiting my grandparents .  Which clearly needed to be rescheduled, because I was an alternate for the all-star team !  They were counting on me !  What if, I argued to my parents, one of the all-stars contracts chicken pox ?  Is the all-star game gonna get called off because the alternate is unavailable, or is the alternate going to go into the all-star game, hit the winning a home run, and get a trophy ? Eventually my parents settled on a solution: we would still go visit my grandparents, and I would miss the all-star game, but I would get a trophy . To be precise, my parents went to the trophy store and had a trophy made for me that said  " John Green 1984: all-star in our hearts .  "  I mean, it's the ultimate participation trophy: not only did I not earn it, my parents paid for it so I would feel like a winner, even though I was not a winner .  So how did this experience affect me ?  I don't know !  I think I turned out mostly okay .  My parents always praised my effort much more than my achievements, like even now when something nice happens to one of my books, my mom is much more likely to say,  " I know you worked really hard on that story, "  than  " congratulations on winning that award .  " I think the  " all-star in our hearts "  trophy was an extension of that .   And for a while I was really proud of it .  I mean, I had almost been an all-star .   And then it became a funny story to tell . Hank, as you talked about on Friday, people ask us all the time if we're competitive as brothers, and we are, in the sense that when we play sports or board games I definitely want to win .  But as somebody pointed out in comments, the word compete comes from the Latin words petere, meaning  " to seek or to strive " , and com-, meaning  " together .  "  I don't see your success as my failure because it isn't my failure .  We are striving together . To be honest, I'm not sure the social order ought to reinforce the idea that you winning means someone else losing, because life is not a zero-sum game .  Nor do I think we should teach kids that winning and high achievement are the only praiseworthy outcomes .  I think we need to raise teammates who know how to collaborate and how to strive together .  In short, I think we all need to learn how to participate . Hank, An Absolutely Remarkable Thing comes out one week from today, and I am so proud of you, because I know how hard you worked on it .  I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, It's Tuesday .  Greeting from the floor of a hotel room .  It's September 25th which means your book  " An Absolutely Remarkable Thing "  is out in the world .  It's had a lovely reception so far .  People have been sending me updates as they read it and pictures of themselves reading it and also the reviews are great ! Like, the Associated Press just called it  " A thrilling journey that takes a hard look at the power of fame .  "  It really is a thrilling journey that takes a hard look at the power of fame .  And tonight we get to celebrate the book here in New York City at the Town Hall, one of my favorite places in the world and then we go on tour and I am just so happy that last night I started crying for no reason except for gratitude .   But, Hank, in addition to this being a very exciting time I can imagine it being a somewhat stressful time because this thing that you have been working on for five years is being read by lots of people and that's exciting but also scary .  And, Hank, when I feel like that I find comfort and joy in one extremely specific place I would like to share with you today .  I am referring, of course, the boottoobig subreddit . You know BootTooBig, Hank .   " Roses are red .  Sugar is sweet .  His Boot Too Big For His Gosh Darn Feet .  "  Lightly edited because my kids watch vlogbrothers now .  I don't know what it is about this joke construction that I find completely irresistible but like,  " Roses are red .  The zoo has elephants .  Please urinate with precision and elegance .  "  There must be something about the meter of  " Roses are red .  Violets are blue .  Sugar is sweet and so are you .  "  that just calms some reptilian part of my brain even though the poem itself is terrible and for the record, violets are usually violet .   But when you take the same meters and exand it to other worlds I just find it inexpressibly delightful like,  " Violets are indigo .  Mockumentaries are silly .  On this day 9 years ago, I dropped the pot of chili .  "  " Roses are red .  You can't sink the Titanic .  If Waffle House closes .  .  . It's time to panic .  " Here's one of my very favorite ones: Roses are red .  I'm not a hero .  .   I can't do it .  .  . hold on .   " Roses are red .  I'm not a hero .  Gas leak at Cyber Goth Rave Kills Zero .  " Also, it's just a reminder of how lovely the world can be if you pay extremely close attention, like,  " Roses are red .  Jordan could dunk .  We know he can swim but .  .  .  Can Richard Funk ?  "  " Roses are red .  Blasphemy is unholy .  I mean, nobody wants to admit they ate nine cans of ravioli .  "  " Roses are red .  I'm a trendsetter .  Camouflage pants are getting better and better .  .  .  " There are also wordless boottoobig's and as you know Hank I'm not much for puns but I'm gonna give you one because I know that you love a dad joke .   " Best dad jokes in town .  This pun's for you, fam .  If you're happy and you know it .  .  . Clamp your hams .  " Okay, just three more, then I'll get serious again .   " Roses are red .  Hakuna Matata .  Life is a party and I'm rhe pinata .  "  " Roses are red .  Violets are blue .  Stop killing mountains to make Moutain Dew .  "  And lastly,  " Roses are red .  Mercury's in thermometers .  Invincible moose, next five kilometers .  "  I hope that brought you joy, Hank .  It certainly made me happy . So, there's a moment at the end of the movie  " Back to the Future "  where George McFly opens a box to find finished copies of his book,  " A Match Made In Space "  .   And as a kid, I often dreamt of that moment, getting to see my own story in the world .  Hank, you've been working on this book for more than five years, but I know you've been dreaming of this moment for much, much longer than that, so congratulations .  I am so excited for you and for everyone to read  " An Absolutely Remarkable Thing .  "  Nerdfighteria the book is available at libraries and book stores everywhere .  This is even a discord where you can discuss it while you read it, links in the doobly-doo below .  I look forward to seeing many of you tonight in New York for the launch and then on the rest of the tour .  Hank, you did it !  I will see you on Friday .   And also, in a couple hours .  
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . This video eventually discusses mental illness, but first I would like to talk to you about the disability adjusted life year, which is very important despite having a boring name, kind of like Bradley Cooper, but perhaps even more important .  So if we're gonna figure out how to improve human health, we obviously need to know what is causing human death . Here's the global picture: IHD aka heart disease is by far the most common cause of death, stroke is also very common .  I was surprised to learn that diarrhea causes about as many deaths as lung cancer, but in general this graphic looked pretty much how I expected it to .   But that doesn't show us the whole picture because of course there is a big difference between dying at the age of 110 and dying at the age of 30 .  And also dying is not the only health problem, although it is a big one .  Many diseases can be disabling even if they aren't fatal and can keep people from leading healthy and productive lives .  So how do we account for all of that ? Enter the disability adjusted life year or  " DALY " , which measures the expected years of health lost to a disease .  While global causes of death look like this, global disease burden measured in terms of DALYs looks like this .  Illnesses like malaria and diarrhea and pneumonia become much more prominent because they disproportionately affect younger people . One of the biggest shifts you see when you measure health in DALYs is in mental health .  In fact, mental illness and substance use disorders become the single biggest category of disease burden in the United States .  At least by that measure what is still sometimes dismissed as  " all in your head "  or  " not an actual health problem "  is in fact our biggest health problem .  And that isn't a uniquely American phenomenon either .  In Brazil for instance, mental illness is also responsible for more lost DALYs than any other single cause including heart disease .  The same is true in France and the UK . In China depression and anxiety robbed people of more years than liver cancer or diabetes .   And even in extremely poor countries mental illness is a significant cause of death and disability .  Like in Sierra Leone for instance, communicable diseases like malaria and meningitis and pneumonia are overwhelmingly the leading cause of lost life years, but mental illness still causes more disease burden than almost any other non communicable disease .  And while it is certainly a challenge to get good mental health care in most places, in poor countries it is extremely difficult .  Many mentally ill people are chained to their beds in hospitals or group homes .  In fact in Sierra Leone the practice of shackling just ended thanks to a huge effort from the Ministry of Health and slightly improved mental health funding . That news should absolutely be celebrated .   But Sierra Leone still faces huge mental health challenges .  There are only two psychiatrists in a nation of seven million people and in other countries around the world many people are still in chains with absolutely no access to treatment . When we measure health in DALYs it becomes clear that improving treatments for mental illness and access to those treatments should be a priority for every country's healthcare system .  To quote a recent piece from The Economist:  " Nobody spends enough on mental health .  "  This is important to me personally because I wouldn't be able to function without the medication I take every day .  It allows me to live with my thoughts rather than being controlled by them .  But I also think it's important for all of us to understand that mental illness is common everywhere in the world and it is serious .  In fact, it's one of the world's leading health problems .  The good news is that the vast vast majority of mental illness is treatable .  As I have said and written many times before, there really is hope, even when your brain tells you there isn't .  Like a lot of people with chronic health problems I have lost time to my illness, but I also have a good and fulfilling life .   And I don't just think that's like possible for mentally ill people, I think it is common, at least when there is access to good treatment .   But we need more of that access both in rich countries and in poor ones .  So one last note: If you think you might need mental health care, please talk to someone you trust about pursuing a treatment plan or consult some of the links in the doobly-doo below .  Hank, sometimes we just need to look at life daily . I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank it's Tuesday .  Your book debuted at number one on the New York Times bestseller list !  Huzzah !  Hank this whole experience has been so joyful .  It is so much better to have your brother publish a book than to publish one yourself .   But maybe my favorite part has been watching people read and discuss the book together in the  " Fans of An Absolutely Remarkable Thing "  discord channel .  It's reminded me how fun it can be to read a book with people .  Like reading is usually a solitary and private experience but when you're done with a book it can be so fulfilling to talk about it with people .   Slightly off topic but when Sarah and I first met we were discussing that and we decided to start a two-person book club .  Which we did for like three months before we started dating, possibly history's most egregious example of two people failing to notice they were in love with each other .   Anyway, lately I've been missing not only the feeling of reading a book with a lot of people but also the experience of a slightly less open, more community-oriented Internet where we do and make stuff together .  Not to be overly dramatic but lately a lot of my time online feels like I'm, you know, shouting my despair into an infinite void .  Which, you know, is nice in its way, but not necessarily what I want to do all the time .   All of this is melded together into an idea that Rosianna Halse Rojas and I have developed with our friends at dftba . com called Life's Library .  The idea is that every six weeks for one year, a group of people will read a book together .  Not a brand new book but one that's at least a year old, and then together we will discuss it in a discord channel; which is like a chatroom except better in every way .   The books will be chosen alternately by Rosianna and I, and if you sign up for the physical life's library you will get a copy of the book mailed to you along with lots of other stuff .  Like a letter from me, book plates designed by artists we love, postcards, and other surprises .  You also get digital stuff, including a podcast Rosianna and I make about the book as well as a discussion guide, and there will be q and a's with the authors unless they are unavailable and/or dead .  I guess everyone who's dead is unavailable .  Well maybe not, maybe we can do a seance Q&A with the dead authors .  I don't know we'll figure it out together .  Alternately you can sign up for the digital subscription in which you pick up the book at your local library or bookstore and then you get all the other resources emailed to you .   And if you can't afford either of those options you can still get your book at a local library and participate in the discussion at the discord .   As for the books they'll range from YA novels, to mysteries, to memoirs .  We want to read broadly and celebrate lots of different kinds of books .  The physical subscription will be $25 per book which includes free shipping both domestically and internationally .  The digital subscription will be $10 per book .  In a related story, shipping is expensive .   And all the profits from Life's Library will go to Partners in Health, an organization we've worked with for over a decade that is dedicated to providing healthcare access for the poor .    Our first book, if we can pull this off, will be Jacqueline Woodson's If You Come Softly which was published 20 years ago but still feels blisteringly contemporary .  Woodson is one of my favorite writers and If You Come Softly is one of my favorite books and I am so excited about the thought of getting to read it closely with lots of you .  So, yeah one more thing, we'll only be able to do this if enough people sign up so we can't like promise that it's gonna happen; but if you're interested in Life's Library please go to lifeslibrarybookclub . com to sign up to be notified when the book club launches .   And if enough people sign up in the next week or two we will launch and your copies of If you Come Softly will arrive by Christmas .  Which reminds me that Life's Library would make a great gift for your family and friends .  Okay I think that's it .  I hope you like the idea of Life's Library, I'll be in comments to answer any of your questions .  Lifeslibrarybookclub . com is where you sign up and Hank I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . So this is Tetris, a video game developed by Alexey Pajitnov that arrived in the United States in 1989 for the Game Boy and the Nintendo Entertainment Systen, AKA the NES .  Tetris became a phenomenon, in fact it is still the best selling video game of all time .  And lately, I've been wondering, why are humans suddenly getting much better at Tetris ?  First, a little background .  There are two, like, great white whales of NES Tetris . The first is a max-out score .  If you get 999,999 points, the game stops being able to count your score .  The second is level 30 . So, in NES Tetris, the blocks fall faster as you level up, and once you get to level 29, they drop so fast that it's almost impossible to move them left or right, making level 30 seemingly impossible .  Back then, there was only one player, Thor Aackerlund, who claimed to have achieved a max-out score and level 30, and lots of people thought he was lying, which, as it turns out, he wasn't .  We now know that Thor was just like, much better at Tetris than all other humans . Anyway, the weird thing about NES Tetris in 2008 is that far fewer people were playing it than played back in 1990, and you would think a larger player base would mean higher top scores .  Like, in 1990 hundreds of millions of people were trying to solve the problem of getting to level 30 .  By 2008, very few people even still has a Nintendo Entertainment System, let alone regularly played Tetris on one .  But a few people never stopped playing NES Tetris, and, as tends to happen when you do something for 20 years, they got pretty good at it .  Also, by 2008, the world's Tetris players were much better connected to each other than they had been back in 1990, partly because the Internet has connected all of us .   And partly because smaller communities can be more tightly knit . Like when a hundred million people are talking, its hard to hear anything but noise .  So Tetris players started to learn more from each other .  Together they figured out that you should always build your well of empty space on the right side of the screen, except as you approach level 29, when you should build it in the middle . Also, some of them developed a new strategy for moving pieces called hyper tapping .   And then in 2010 a tournament started, the Classic Tetris World Championships, which brought the best players together in real life, and motivated them to improve via competition .  The quality of play at the tournament has improved every year, like this year several people achieved max-out scores in qualifying .  And eventual champion Joseph became the first person ever to reach level 30 in front of a live audience .   And then there's live streaming .  Tetris players around the world now share their games on Twitch and YouTube, which allows other Tetris players to learn from them . Even people who've been top level Tetris players for decades are changing their play style to reflect new discoveries and strategy .   And as a result, dozens of people have now maxed out .   And Joseph recently made it to level 31, a land previously only visited by the legendary Thor . Now, I want to be clear that getting a max-out in Tetris is still, like, ridiculously hard, but it's possible .  So why is humanity suddenly getting better at Tetris ?  Because a group of enthusiasts built spaces, both online and off, that allowed people to connect with each other over what is usually a very solitary hobby .  And because small groups of deeply passionate people can often be more productive than large groups of casually interested people .  I've been thinking a lot about that, which is one of the reasons Rosianna and I ended up starting the Life's Library book club, which thanks to your overwhelming response is now open for enrollment, link in the dooblydoo below .   But more generally, I know it's fashionable these days to say that the Internet is a festering cesspool of toxicity, and, you know, it is .  But the Internet is also many other things, including one of the primary drivers of humanity's improved performance at a 29 year old video game .  Really, there is no  " The Internet " , especially in the era of personalized feeds .  There is only for each of us  " Our Internet "  . I don't labor under the delusion that I can make  " The Internet "  better, but I do want to make  " My Internet "  better, and on that front I think Tetris has a lot to teach me .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .  P . S . , next week, Pizzamas is coming .  You know what that means .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Monday .  I only get to say that once a year, it must be Pizzamas .  Once a year, for two weeks, we make videos back and forth to each other every weekday just like it was 2007 .  It's the third most important holiday in Nerdfighteria .  It's a celebration of love, and pizza, and most of all e-commerce .  One other thing as you may be able to hear I'm sick .  I have a fever, I am out of bed for the first time in four days which is good, but I'm not feeling great .  Plus things are terrible, just in general .  I'm sorry about how terrible things are .  This year all our profits and royalties from Pizzamas will go to the Foundation to Decrease Worldsuck and then be used as matching funds during the Project for Awesome, so you can know that your money is being used well and charitably to decrease worldsuck .  What did WH Auden say,  " All I have is a voice to undo the folded lie .  "  Well, all I have is a box full of weird Pizzamas stuff from dftba . com .  It's time for an unboxing video .   Hold on I got open this thing .  Oh no oh, oh god Hank something terrible has happened .  Something extremely terrible .  You know there are some people who can pull off a mustache, and I am one of them .  All right I just gotta open this box .  I've got a very sophisticated box cutter, it's a, uh plug .  First, we've got this shirt from Sophia Cardone, Abstract Pizza John, oh that's very artistic !  Then there's this shirt from designer  Andy J Pizza, it's Mr .  Potato Man Peace Sign Pizza John .  Maria Nguyen designed this one, Oh my god it's epic !  Oh-ho-ho this one's from David Pemberton, there's pizza in his hair .  Oh my gosh guys, guys, look, at that .  I .  .  .  these are .  .  .  I have to put all of these on .  I mean why buy one when you can comfortably wear five Pizza John t-shirts at a time .  Okay, I think this is our last shirt, it was designed by the folks at dftba . com and it is so cool .  An extremely subtle Pizza John for those of you who, you know, you're proud of Pizzamas, but not too proud . What else do we have ?  We have a Pizzamas sleep mask .  All of this, by the way, is only available during Pizzamas, and then it will disappear forever, dftba . com .  Just because I'm not making the royalties doesn't mean I'm not working hard on the sales .  I think I want to put on my glasses .  Yeah, I think it'll look better with glasses on .  Oh, that's the business .   And then there is this magnificent Pizza John flag, for all of your Pizza John flag needs .  I'm very excited about this year's Pizza John calendar, which contains lots of amazing Pizza artwork from Nerdfighters around the world .  It's ju .  .  .  it's magnificent every month .  Hank, say hello to the Pizza John satin jacket .  You can look like my Little League coach in 1985, made me an alternate on the all-star team .  You know Farmer Jane Soap, the goat milk soap company my mom founded, oh yeah we've got Pizzamas soap, made by hand with real goat's milk in Western North Carolina .  It's good soap .  We also have this  " Don't talk to me before I've had my pizza "  Pizza John coffee mug .  There's a travel pillow, and a paint-by-numbers Pizza John shirt that comes in a box with markers and you make your own dang shirt .  Oh god, I love Pizzamas .  I started out this video so sad and feeling so terrible .  .  .    .  .  . I still feel terrible .  So Pizzamas can't cure disease, but it can clothe you and clean you and provide you with mugs with which to drink coffee .  It occurs to me that people who are new to this channel are like, what the hell is going on, and why does that guy have a mustache .  I'll put an explanatory link in the doobly-doo below, where, by the way, you can also find a link to all the Pizzamas stuff available only for the next two weeks, again all proceeds go to charity .  Hank, I will see you tomorrow !  Yay !  Oh, Sara's home I have to go show her my mustache, it's her favorite thing !    - Hi .  .  .  it's that time of year again huh ?                 
Good morning Hank, it's Wednesday .  Happy Day 3 of Pizzamas !  So yesterday it was announced that Kristine Froseth & Charlie Plummer have been cast to play the leads in the 8 episode Hulu adaptation of my first novel,  " Looking for Alaska "  .   And today I wanna talk a little bit about the winding road that led to that moment .   "   Alaska "  was published in March of 2005 .  I was 28 years old and living in Chicago .  Sarah and I had been dating for like almost a year .  I didn't know how to refer to her in the acknowledgments so in the end I thanked  " the lovely Sarah Urist "  .   But that summer we got engaged on the same day Sarah found out she would be attending graduate school in New York City, which was very exciting .   But also it was not clear to us how we were going to like afford to live in New York for two years .  I mean  " Looking for Alaska "  was selling okay, but not like  " move to New York and quit your job "  okay .  Quick side note, since I'm talking about book sales, to me the point of writing is not to like create a book that sells a million copies or lives for a hundred years or whatever .  I think the point is to try to write something that matters to those who find it .  There are many books that have long been out of print that are still for me are candles in the way down darkness .  So yeah, maybe they're not widely read any more but they still matter .  Okay, back to talking about money, we did not have a lot of it .   And you can't eat art .  Well I guess you can, but it's not a good long term strategy .   And then, quite suddenly,  " Looking for Alaska "  attracted interest in Hollywood .  One morning I was a person with a book that was not selling well and by that afternoon I was a person who had been paid three times my annual salary for the movie rights to that book .  It allowed us to move to New York, it bought me time to write, it was life changing .  There was just one thing, which is that the deal contained no reversion clause which meant that the movie studio that bought the rights to  " Looking for Alaska "  would own them forever .  Now to be clear, I understood what I was doing and the thing about selling something is that then you don't own it anymore .  So the person initially attached to write the screenplay was Josh Schwartz who, with Stephanie Savage, has made lots of great TV shows and Josh wrote an excellent script .   But then the studio wanted a bunch of changes, mostly to make it less like the book .  It's really easy to paint Hollywood producers and executives as cartoon villains and I know that some of them are .   But actually I just think it's really hard to get a movie made, let alone a good movie .  Like it's hard to get someone to say  " I would like to write a $20 million check for this thing that doesn't exist yet .  "   And indeed they couldn't get anyone to say that, so after a while  " Alaska "  movie was dead .  It stayed dead until 2014, when a different book of mine was adapted into a very successful movie and then everyone was like  " Hey has that guy written any other books ?  "  With  " The Fault in Our Stars "  movie, everyone, including everyone at the studio, cared so much about the book and having that wonderful process really made me really want there to be an  " Alaska "  movie .   And the studio that owns the  " Alaska "  rights did try .  They hired awesome screenwriters and a wonderful director only to cancel the movie at the very last minute .  In the past I've been pretty philosophical about the failures of the  " Alaska "  adaptation, but that time I was heartbroken and very angry .  So I told them that I was out .  That they could obviously make whatever they wanted, because they owned the rights, but I did not want to be involved .   And then, a few months later a producer friend of mine called me with an idea .  What if Josh and Stephanie, the people who cared about the book and championed it all these years, long before it ever had a big audience, were actually able to make it ?   And what if they had more time than a movie has ?  Time to tell, not only the full story of the book, but also things that are only hinted at in the book .   And so  " Looking for Alaska "  was reimagined as an 8 episode limited series that will air on Hulu, a streaming service that did not exist when the book was first published .  This time it is really going to happen !    .  It is not my series .  It will belong to Stephanie and Josh, as it should, but they have been really welcoming to me in every aspect of the process .  Which included sending me the audition tapes of the actors who've been cast as Alaska and Miles and I have to say both of them embody those characters for me in ways that I find surprising and kind of overwhelming .  I later learned that they both read the books years ago and really care about it .  Who knows how the show will end up but I'm so excited and really grateful to everyone who stuck with this for 13 pretty long years .  I mean, when  " Looking for Alaska "  was first published Charlie and Kristine were little kids .  I don't believe in fate, but what good fortune that the story waited for them .  Hank, I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Friday .  So one of the things that interest me about our species is our inclination toward, like, discovery and exploration .  Even though there were many species of humans before us, and some that coexisted with us, we were the only species to spread across the entire globe and we did that despite the fact that many of Earth's habitats are not particularly hospitable to our biology .  Also, exploration comes with a high risk of, you know like, death, and yet still we did it .  We engaged in this exploration across times and across cultures and we continue to do it .  I expect to live to see the first person step foot on Mars .  In one way getting humans to another planet will obviously be an astonishing accomplishment, but in another way, it will be the obvious continuation of what we've been up to the last 250,000 years .  Okay this video is gonna feature two side notes and here is the first one .  In the United States we have an election next Tuesday November 6th .  It is a very important election and you should vote in it if you're eligible, and to get ready to vote I highly recommend ballotready . org .  It allows you to research every candidate and referendum on your ballot, it is really amazing and it's not like a sponsored thing or anything, it's just amazing .  So get ready to vote, and if you're concerned that you might not vote, call or text a friend and say hey make sure that I vote on Tuesday .  Please vote, it matters .  Okay, back to the video .  But there is also more than one kind of exploration, right .  Like there's the kind where you sail off into the ocean of the great unknown with nothing but hope .  There's also the kind where you explore your existing world in ways that haven't been attempted yet, ways that might even seem counterintuitive .  This is how humans have discovered all kinds of things, from important things like the counterintuitive fact that injecting yourself with a weakened form of a virus can protect you against that virus .  To lovely but unimportant stuff, like the counterintuitive fact that in football you score more goals with four or three defenders than with one or two .  That kind of explorative learning is so wonderful to me .  I love it that humans figure stuff out, share it, and then verify the information, and then pass it on .  Like that, is the human story, or the best of it anyway .  Second side note, hey, did you know that this mug, this sleep mask, this t-shirt, and many other things are available for order right now at dftba . com .  That's right Hank, you can celebrate Pizzamas, including with this ridiculous button, right now at dftba . com .  Side note to the side note, Hank, do you ever find yourself accidentally watching linear television only to discover that there are eight minutes of advertisements for every 22 minutes of content .  If Vlogbrothers were a TV show, there would be three, 30-second commercials in every single video .  Ok back to the show .  There's another kind of exploration I love that does not, like, send us to Mars or discover vaccines, which is weird exploration for no reason except that it is beautiful .  Like we don't know why these paintings were created by people 25,000 years ago, or what was meant to be communicated by the artwork on this Grecian urn, but at least in part it was probably people trying to make something beautiful, and I find that so encouraging .  All of which brings me at long last to the title of this video .  Hank, yesterday you sent me an article about a panda person who has spent thousands of hours picking flowers in World of Warcraft and refusing to engage in battles, or even to pick a side in them .  I'm not given over to hyperbole but that is the best thing I have ever heard of .  It also reminds me of KurtJMac's beautiful project  " Far Lands or Bust "  in which for the last 7 and a half years a Minecraft user has been walking in one direction with his dog .  They're walking toward the edge of the Minecraft universe, known as the Far Lands, but they are many years away from getting there .  Links to both these projects in the doobly-doo below by the way .  So I know a lot of people think endeavors like these are just huge wastes of time, but I do not agree .  I think playing within real or virtual worlds in new and strange and beautiful ways is valuable, because it inspires oneself and others to think differently about those worlds; and also because time spent trying to do or make something beautiful never feels wasted to me .  In a related story I will be back playing video games as a pacifist in the near future over at Hank Games, but before that Hank, I will see you on Monday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  So my internet isn't working .  I don't mean that like, the wireless in this house is unreliable; I mean, I wish it were more unreliable because I don't like the way I'm using the internet - or more to the point, I don't like the way the internet is using me . Wait, hold on - I have to go vote ! Aaand done !  I even got a sticker !  Okay, back to the house . Right, so - I spend something like 20 hours a week on Facebook/Reddit/Instagram/Twitter, and most of that time I'm scrolling, swiping, clicking, scanning, skimming . My attention has become extremely fractured, and I feel this constant pull toward checking, refreshing and refreshing as if something truly fresh is just over the horizon .  I also don't like the way passively ingesting information on the internet makes me feel, but on the other hand, I can't stop doing it . Hank, you said on Twitter a few days ago that you love Coca-Cola but wish it didn't exist, and .  .  .  that's how I feel about Twitter .  Like I really believe that my attention is all I have, and I'm very uncomfortable with the way that social internet companies have hacked my brain to capture that attention and monetize it . None of which is to say that Facebook/Reddit/Instagram/Twitter are like, capital-b bad or whatever, I just think my brain is unusually susceptible to being hacked .  Not least because I have a mental health disorder that predisposes me toward repetitive checking and circular thought . In fact I think lots of people are able to use Facebook/Reddit/Instagram/Twitter in ways that are productive and fulfilling, and that those platforms connect us to each other and allow more people to have a voice in public discourse . Also, for whatever reason, I don't have a terrible relationship with other social media platforms, like here on YouTube for instance, I'm able to be fairly intentional about what I watch, and participate in the community in ways that make me happy . So yeah, I'm not trying to say that your internet isn't working, or that the internet isn't working - only that my internet isn't working . I have two problems .  First, I don't have, like, the willpower to resist the allure of Facebook/Reddit/Instagram/Twitter .   And secondly, the corporations that run the social internet are not incentivized to provide me with information that is accurate or helpful; they are incentivized to provide me with information that will hold my attention, and keep me on their platform while I ingest advertising .  And in my case, the information that holds my attention best is that which shocks and/or appalls and/or fascinates me .  Like, a horrifying story breaks, and I keep refreshing and refreshing, looking for new facts, but facts take time to establish, and I can't wait .  So instead, I skim through speculation and guesswork and hot takes, all of which fills me without nourishing me . The social internet companies are happy, because they've received and monetized many hours of my attention, but I don't think the world is better .   And more to the point, I don't think my life is better . Longtime viewers of Vlogbrothers will know that this is something I've struggled with for a while .  I started my podcast The Anthropocene Reviewed in an attempt to pay more sustained and careful attention .  I post much less frequently than I used to on Facebook/Reddit/Instagram/Twitter .   But I still spend huge swaths of time there, and all my attempts to go on an information diet or dumb down my phone have failed . So, I'm going to take a year off .  I'm going to block Facebook/Reddit/Instagram/Twitter from my web browsers, and I'm going to find a way to truly dumb down my phone so I literally cannot access these platforms that are occupying so much of my attention .  And perhaps most radically, I'm going to get my news from something called newspapers !  And during this year, I'm not going to ask someone to post on my behalf .  I just want to see how it feels not to be in those places . I'm going to start next month when the Project for Awesome ends, but here on YouTube, things will be pretty much the same - still a Vlogbrothers video every week .   So I'll still be around, in fact hopefully with my attention less fractured, I'll be more present in the places that matter the most to me .  I'm so fortunate that this community continues to be a really lovely and fulfilling place for me to hang out, and I hope you feel the same way . So yeah, I'll be here .  I just, you know, won't be in some of the other places .  I'd be interested to hear from any of you who've tried a version of this or if you have any tips for me . I look forward, as always, to continuing the conversation in comments . Hank - don't forget to be a  .  .  .  voter !  I'll see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Thursday . It's my last video of Pizzamas, and I'm wearing a suit, which can only mean one thing: that it's time for the Bank of Nerdfighteria's semi-annual report . The last semi-annual report was a year and a half ago, but it's 2018; words don't mean anything .  Let's talk about money . Right, so Nerdfighteria has a charity called the Foundation to Decrease Worldsuck, which, despite its silly name, is a real charity devoted to trying to decrease the overall level of suck in the world .   And the foundation raises money all year long in anticipation of our big annual charity event, the Project for Awesome .  This year, the foundation has about $50,000 in the bank going into the P4A . Some of this came from Amazon Smile, some from people's workplace giving programs .  A bunch came from Tab for a Cause, which lets you raise money for charity while you browse the Web .  And also, half of the revenue from this YouTube channel goes to the foundation, so thank you for watching ads and/or subscribing to whatever YouTube Red is currently called . Plus, this year, every Pizzamas purchase supports the foundation, which reminds me that ALL this Pizzamas magic will only be available for ONE MORE DAY at DFTBA . com, so get it while it's hot !   And by hot, I mean available .  But on that front, you may notice in the coming months that more of our work inside of Nerdfighteria is transitioning towards supporting charity .  Like our Pizzamas royalties are going to the foundation, the proceeds from Life's Library, the book club Rosianna and I are starting, go to Partners in Health . This is happening for two reasons: First, because Hank and I do not need money; we both have jobs that pay well, my job being having written a book seven years ago that became quite popular, and Hank's job being having 40 jobs .   And secondly, we feel like it makes sense for the revenue generated by Nerdfighteria to be spent in ways that are in keeping with the values of Nerdfighteria . Honestly, I've always felt kind of guilty getting paid for Pizza John T-shirts .  I think there are better ways to spend that money, and so, we're gonna spend it better .  But, and this is the last thing I'll say about it: I wanna emphasize that it is far more generous for a person with $10 to donate $1 to a cause they care about than for a person with $1,000,000 to donate $100,000 to a cause they care about .  It's really easy for rich people to seem altruistic, and we're making this transition because we can afford to .  Okay, back to the video . So the $50, 000 we currently have in the bank will be a great start to the TWELFTH ANNUAL Project for Awesome, which will begin this year at noon Eastern Time on December 7th .  During the first half of the Project for Awesome, we'll be raising money for pre-selected charities: Save the Children and Partners in Health, two HIGHLY effective organizations that we've been working with for over a decade .  And then during the second half, we'll be raising money for charities chosen by Nerdfighteria .  Since 2012, the Project for Awesome has raised over $7,500,000 for charity, supporting causes from cancer research to clean water initiatives, and I'm really excited for this year . Speaking of which, if you can think of any perks that might tempt your donation dollars, let me know in comments . This year, Hank and I will match all donations to the first half of the Project for Awesome up to $150,000, and every year, there are a few people who are able to add to that matching fund, which is amazing !  If you somehow are able to donate $1000 or more to this year's Project for Awesome, please email us at hankandjohn@gmail . com with  " matching "  in the subject line .  Your donations are tax-deductible, and you will be profusely thanked .  But of course we know that most people aren't in a position to do that, and regardless of whether you can donate, you can make a Project for Awesome video in support of a charity you care about .  People can then vote for your video, and the charity might receive a grant from the foundation, so get started thinking about your P4A videos, it's only 29 days away ! Last thing, I should mention that the Life's Library book club is closing enrollment tomorrow, because we are running out of spots .  Links, as always, in the dooblydoo below . Hank, thank you for a fun Pizzamas .  I probably won't get to say this again until until next Pizzamas, so I'm gonna enjoy saying it now:I will see you tomorrow .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday . So as you can see, I have a level one hairmergency, and you're probably wondering how I let this happen .  But the thing is, four days ago when I last made a Vlogbrothers video, my hair looked fine !  Like I had at most a level eight or level ten situation . You know, like some kind of intervention would eventually be required .   But there was no immediate threat .   And then FOUR DAYS later, hairmergency ! This happens every single time .  Right after a haircut, my hair is great, and then for a long time, it is good enough, and then one morning, I wake up with a critical situation .  And then I have to call my hair stylist and be like  " No !  It cannot wait until Thursday !  I look like an elderly porcupine .  " Now Hank, I am aware that I could prevent this cycle by just saying  " Yes "  when the receptionist at the hair salon asks me immediately after my haircut if I would like to schedule another appointment .  But I always say no .  Why ?  Because I've just gotten a haircut .  I look great !  I'm bulletproof ! The last thing I need to do is schedule ANOTHER haircut . Every single time, I am so weirdly confident that this haircut will end up differently from all of the past ones . Ughhh !   And then ten weeks later, I wake up one morning, look in the mirror, and there's Doc Brown . So Hank, this is not only a problem for me when it comes to haircuts .  I experience this same issue with burnout .  Like, I start to think to myself,  " I would like to do another thing .  I have time !  " I know that I have time, because I have time to think about this new thing I wanna do . It might be that I'd like to start a weird new podcast, where I review different facets of the human-centered planet on a five-star scale .  It might be that I'd like to start a book club, or that I'd like to write a new novel .  And I will tell myself,  " This won't be like those other haircuts; this one will end differently .  " Now I know what about to say is like a standard acknowledgement in the genre of YouTube burnout videos, but I REALLY like all my jobs . In fact, I'm in the ridiculously privileged position of being absolutely sure that I like my jobs, because I don't need to work . I choose to work, and I really love my work, and I want it to have value .  Not because I'm like altruistic or whatever, but because it's very useful to me to pay attention to the world outside myself . The problem is that as I add stuff, it all feels totally and completely doable, in precisely the same way that the hair situation is entirely under control . Until one day, quite suddenly, it is not under control, and I have a level one burnout emergency .  And the unfortunate thing is that once that starts, fixing it is not usually as easy as getting a haircut . Because once I start to feel really overwhelmed, I don't like, magically become more productive .  I become LESS productive, because being overwhelmed is super time-consuming . Burnout does not inspire me toward productivity; it inspires me toward a kind of exhausted fatalism . Also, I forget to schedule haircuts . Anyway, I have an exceptional inability to see burnout coming, and so when it arrived recently, I was completely gobsmacked .  Why was there suddenly so much to do and so little time to do it in ? The answer of course, being that I had scheduled it that way . I think this happens to a lot of people .  Current you imagines that future you will be slightly more productive and energetic than current you is, which is great !  That's the kind of optimism that has fueled the human story . Like, forget about my level of overwhelmedness .  Imagine the overwhelmedness of the humans who were like,  " We should get into this ocean we can't see the end of and sail over the edge of the world in these tiny wooden boats .  Future us will have NO problem figuring out the challenges involved .  " So what am I gonna do about feeling overwhelmed ?  Well, I'm not going sailing; that's for sure . I do think it helps just to acknowledge it .  I also think it helps to prioritize the most important relationships in your life and remember what actually matters, which is not whether the Anthropocene Reviewed comes out on time .  But also, when the receptionist asks me if I wanna schedule my next hair appointment, I'm gonna say YES .   And I'm gonna try to pay better attention, in the hopes of being able to intervene earlier, so that fewer level eight situations become level one hairmergencies . Hank !  I am gonna go get a haircut .  I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday . Your video on Friday reminded me that we don't talk enough about joy or the many very real reasons to feel joyous .  By the way, I didn't get a haircut . I'm too busy .  Let's not talk about .  Let's talk about joy . Here's the thing, Hank .  I think it's really hard to feel joy unless you make room for it, which might be one of the reasons that historically humans have created so many celebration rituals .  From coming of age ceremonies to,  " Yay, it rained !  "  ceremonies, we have created all of these occasions for us to come together and feel joy, or at least we used to create them .  But these days of course fewer of us are receiving First Communion or dancing when it rains or whatever, and that can make it feel like there is no cause for celebration, and I just don't think that's true .  Like, at a societal level, U .  S .  median household income is higher than it's ever been, and the poverty rate is declining . Although, not as fast as it should be given our economic growth, but still .  Cause for celebration !   And there are also, of course, many personal causes for celebration . There's love among family and friends .  There are babies !   And there are human accomplishments, big and small . Maybe you got a promotion at work or passed a class that was difficult or overcame your anxiety to call the dealership about that rattling noise in your care or maybe that's just me .   But at any rate, it's also worth celebrating .  I'm also very pleased that this year's black-eyed pea crop almost filled this container . Plus, I learned how to dry oregano, which only looks illegal in twenty-seven states .   And then, of course, there are big things like my daughter going to kindergarten .   But whatever it is, I think if you look hard at your life over the last several months, you will find causes for celebration . There will be accomplishments that you're proud of or developments that you're grateful for, and in my experience, at least, if you don't pause to celebrate that stuff, it's never going to bring you much joy .  In my life, anyway, the weird thing is that if I take time to celebrate, I can feel really joyful about things that from the outside probably don't seem that impressive .  Like I worked my tail off for these black-eyed peas, and I am super psyched about them .  But if I don't take time to celebrate, I feel almost nothing about things that from the outside, probably seem like really big deals .  Like when I found out that my novel  " Turtles All The Way Down "  had its fifty-second consecutive week on the New York Times Bestsellers List .  I felt happy for a moment, but then I went back to feeling the broad and poorly-specified anxiety that tends to be my background emotion . It was only weeks later when Sarah came home with a bottle of champagne and we toasted together in a quiet celebration that I suddenly felt overwhelmed with joy and gratitude .  So here's my proposal: Every now and again, you get a bottle of champagne .  You don't need the good stuff .  And if you don't drink, don't get champagne .  Get some fancy tea or chocolate or a really great cheese or something you love .  You have a friend or two over or you gather your roommates or your parents or your partner or whomever and you break bread or pop champagne or sip tea or whatever, and you celebrate . You talk about the wonderful thing that's happened .  You tell the story of how you won that game of Fortnite or you made that student loan payment or you got that promotion and you celebrate it together and then you invite people to share with you what they are celebrating .  I've been doing this lately, and it has brought me so much joy .  And then after we all, like, celebrate together for a bit, we all go back to complaining about everything .  Because, you know, it's a dumpster fire .   But even so, I believe there is cause for celebration . So here's to building rituals and traditions that help us to come together and celebrate .  I don't have any champagne with me, but I do have this Cherry Coke Zero .  #NonSpon .  Cheers ! Prost !  L'chaim !  Hank, I'll see you on Friday . It's a pretty good Cherry Coke Zero, actually .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday .  I've been thinking a lot about this famous moment in history called the Melian Dialogue .  It happened around 2,400 years ago in Ancient Greece .      The story stars the city of Athens, which is widely credited with giving us so many of our ideas about democracy and freedom .   And Athens in the 5th Century B . C . E .  really was a remarkable place, not only because Plato and Socrates were living and philosophizing there: Sophocles was writing Antigone and Oedipus Rex as well as serving in elected office; Thucydides was revolutionizing the writing of history .  In fact, the know about the Melian Dialogue primarily because of him .      So Athens was fifteen years into the Peloponnesian War, which was fought against their great enemy, the Spartans .   And the island of Melos, which is about 110 miles off the coast of mainland Greece, was neutral in the war .  The Melians were closely related to the Spartans but they didn't fight with them .       And then, in 416 B . C . E . , the Athenians sent 38 ships with 3,000 soldiers to capture the island of Milos or else force the Melians to pay tribute .      The Melians were like:  " Hey !  It's not moral to attack a people who are neutral, who pose no threat to you .  You're Athens !  the school of Greece, the cradle of justice !  "   And according to Thucydides, the Athenians replied:       " The strong do what they can, and the weak suffer what they must .  "      After a siege on their city, the Melians eventually surrendered and the Athenians murdered all of the men of Milos and sold all of the women and children into slavery .       And that line-- " the strong do what they can and the weak suffer what they must " --has reverberated through history .  Some argue that it's the guiding principle of history, that the story of humans is powerful people doing whatever they can to increase and defend that power while powerless people suffer whatever they must .      I think that's an oversimplification; I don't think that humans are merely power-seeking animals and I don't think that you can understand the whole human story as seeing humans turning their faces to power the way that plants turn toward the sun .       But around the world and across time we do find many, many examples of the powerful doing whatever they can and the weak suffering whatever they must .  We see it in the experiences of refugee populations; we see children and vulnerable people are far more likely to be abused and mistreated; and we see diseases that disproportionately affect the poor receive less funding for treatment and research .  I mean, 200,066 children under the age of 5 died of malaria last year: 200,066 .  Almost all of them were poor and on some level they didn't actually die of malaria, which with more robust healthcare systems would usually be treatable .  They died because the weak must suffer what they must .       But again, I don't think that needs to be the whole human story .  Like, trying to become stronger and to make others weaker is not actually a very effective strategy, either personally or geopolitically .  The Athenians, after all, lost the Peloponnesian War in the end .       But more to the point, we know that other people suffering less does not mean that we will suffer more because human life is not a zero-sum game .  In fact, when more people get the chance to live a healthy life and seek educational opportunities, life gets better for the strong as well as the weak because we have more potential innovators to solve our problems and because we are deeply interconnected and interdependent species .      Like, 75 years ago the richest people in the world had no way to prevent themselves from getting measles .  150 years ago the most powerful people on earth had no air conditioning for their castles or cars to drive--or, probably to be driven in .      All those changes happened in part because humans began to understand that more for me does not necessarily mean less for you .   And I worry sometimes that we are forgetting those lessons, that we are instead embracing the Athenian worldview, which proved not only disastrous not only for the Melians but also for the Athenians themselves .      I think building norms and systems that protect the weak from the Geneva Conventions to child labor laws has helped make the world safer and more just for all of us .      Obviously there is a lot left to do .   But I think to do that work, we need to stand with the Melians of today's world .      Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank .   The 2018 Project for Awesome is here !   You can go to projectforawesome . com/live right now to join the 48 hour livestream extravaganza or donate at projectforawesome . com/donate .   Okay, so get this: yesterday, about 353,000 babies were born .   That's amazing .   It's like the population of Honolulu, Hawai'i .   Quick pause to note the cuteness of a Honolulu's worth of babies .   Although, of course, a city populated entirely by babies would be a disaster due to babies being, you know, tremendously incompetent .   Here's the thing that gets me about newborn babies .   They have no skills .   Like, forget about walking, they haven't even discovered their own hands, and yet, many of the 353,000 babies born yesterday are like, eight or nine years away from understanding that their home planet is part of a solar system that is rotating around a star called the sun .   Like, humans have been around for 250,000ish years and it took 249,500 of those years for us to figure out that the Earth was definitely not the center of the universe .   We spent 99 . 8% of human history not knowing something that most babies born yesterday will be able to understand like, six months after they learn how to tie their own shoes . This seems to me like the central hope of human history .   We are so good at accumulating, sharing, and passing on knowledge that the babies born yesterday may, within a few decades, know how to solve problems that to us feel totally unfixable .   Those babies born yesterday were born into the healthiest and best educated moment in human history .   They're more than twice as likely to survive to adulthood than children born in 1990 and far more likely to go to school .   They're less likely to experience extreme poverty or malnutrition and that has not happened by accident or because progress is natural .   It has happened because we as a species have decided to prioritize children .    But I would argue we haven't prioritized them nearly enough .   266,000 children are expected to die of malaria this year .   728 of them were born yesterday .   An additional 14,000 children born yesterday will die before the age of five, and most of them will die from easily treatable or preventable illnesses: diarrhea, pneumonia, starvation .   I know that the challenges of delivering healthcare in poor communities are exceptionally complex .   It's not just a matter of having enough food or medicine .   There are challenges when it comes to sanitation and staffing and transportation and storage .   I don't want to pretend that the problems are simple, but I think the solution is simple .   The more we as a species make the health of our most vulnerable children a priority, the more likely they are to lead healthy lives .   Our community has worked with Partners in Health and Save the Children for over ten years now, and we have seen and supported Save the Children's work in refugee camps and also providing healthcare and educational opportunities and nutritional support for children in poverty and crisis, and Partners in Health does extraordinary work providing healthcare to the poor from Sierra Leone to Haiti .   They're both highly rated charities known for their efficiency and effectiveness, and for the first half of the Project for Awesome til noon on Saturday, all your donations at projectforawesome . com/donate will go to support them, and because of overwhelming support from matching donations, every dollar you donate will count as four dollars .   So let's do what we can to give all the babies born yesterday a healthy life .   Plus you can get amazing perks from the P4A commemorative coin to this amazing poster to secret episodes of Dear Hank and John and The Anthropocene Reviewed .   Also, Sarah and I are making a Project for Awesome only podcast called The Statue Got Me High and Sarah and Katherine are hosting a version of Dear Hank and John called Dear Sarah and Katherine .   Or you can get some pressed pennies .   We take horrible worthless pennies and turn them into magnificent souvenirs, including one that honors the late, great Fireball Wilson Roberts .   All that and so much more at projectforawesome . com/donate .    And then, during the second half of the Project for Awesome, we'll be raising money for charities chosen by you .   You can submit your Project for Awesome videos right now at projectforawesome . com and also, you can vote for Project for Awesome videos and help us decide where the money goes, and finally, the 48-hour Project for Awesome livestream starts now at projectforawesome . com/live .   It is going to be so much fun !   Hank, I can't believe this is the 12th Project for Awesome .   I grow old, I grow old, I shall wear the bottoms of my trousers rolled, I will see you in the livestream !                 
Good morning Hank it's Tuesday, When the internet first came to our house in the early 1990s so far as I could tell the internet was inside of a box, the box required a bunch of technical skill to install and then once my Dad got the internet working the internet was green letters on a black screen .  I remember my Dad showing me the things the internet could do, like look the internet can show you what the weather is like right now in Beijing or with the internet you can download the apology of Socrates for free .  And now I understand why all that stuff must have been so cool to my Dad, like one of the weird solipsisms of American life is that the news almost never talks about the weather outside of the United States unless there is some natural disaster unfolding, and it is pretty cool that the apology of Socrates is available to anyone with an internet connection .   But of course to thirteen year old me all of that stuff was just stupid, and then Dad showed me that on the internet you could talk to people, he wanted me to practise my French so he showed me a French forum and I started asking people 'Comment ca va ? ' and 'Ou est la bibliotheque ? ' and then pretty quickly I started to wonder if there was an English-language version of that same service and it turned out there was and that changed my life .  I made friends including many of the most important friendships of my childhood and I met a girl who I eventually fell in love with and dated for most of college even though when we first met in real life, and this is still astonishing for me, neither of us had ever since a picture of the other because the internet was still green letters on a black screen . I even got something called an email address which was a series of random digit at CompuServe . com .  Back then the internet charged by the hour which became a real issue because I wanted to spend many many hours on it, my parents wanted to be supportive but they also like need to pay the mortgage but just as they were telling me I was going to need to decrease my internet usage a lifeline appeared CompuServe realised that their student forum needed moderating and because I was always in that forum I was hired as one of the moderators, and by hired I mean given free internet .  That moderating experience did teach me a little about online community building but mostly it just gave me all the internet I could want, and I wanted a lot of it, like I still think of that first summer as the summer of CompuServe, like if a single event in my life occurred in my life outdoors at summer I do not recall it . Like I do not have the physical vigour required for proper exploration but that summer I felt all that magic of discovery as I uncovered every wonder and terror on the internet .  Now I don't want to wax nostalgic about that internet, it had all the problems of the current internet albeit on a smaller scale, my point is only that I loved it .  It gave me friends when I really needed them and that I fell in love and that I found out that Beijing had weather . These days after drinking from the internet's fire hose for more than 25 years I've begun to fell more of its negative side effects, I don't know if it's my age or the fact that the internet is no longer plugged into the wall but now can travel with me everywhere I go, but more and more I find myself reading that Wordsworth poem that begins 'The world is too much with us late and soon' but this weekend the Project for Awesome reminded me how the best of the internet feels, this year's Project for Awesome has raised over 1 . 5 million dollars for charity and the fundraiser is still up you can go to projectforawesome . com/donate until midnight tonight and get great perks .   But money aside I felt so grateful this weekend to be part of a vibrant and joyous community that is working together to try to make the world suck less, in the end what I love about the internet is also what I fear about the internet we can do so much more together then we can do alone .  Hank I will see you on Friday                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  Happy 2019 !  Did you know that a couple weeks ago the United States Congress passed a resolution reaffirming the strong commitment of the United States to the countries and territories of the Pacific Islands region ?  It did !  I know congress often gets flack for its inability to, like, do stuff .  To cite one particularly egregious example, much of the United States Federal Government is not currently functioning because Congress can't pass a bill to fund it .   But Congress is actually pretty good at resolutions, at least ones that don't require you to do anything .  Which is my issue with New Year's resolutions .  They never last for me because they're more like dreams than goals, you know ?  Like for instance this year I would like to spend more time with my family, which is a nice resolution and seems doable, but the problem is that it will necessarily require me to do less of other things .   And that will disappoint people who are involved in or benefit from those other things .   And so I have to be ready to disappoint those people; I have to be ready to make a trade-off . In my experience, life is a series of trade-offs and compromises, and if you don't make them consciously, you end up having to make them in a panic .  Or else you deny that such compromises are necessary until your system, whether that be a human body or a federal government just kind of shuts down .  So with all that in mind, I don't make New Year's resolutions, instead, every year, I write a letter to myself looking back at the year that was and ahead at the year to come and I write about the trade-offs I would like to make and the changes I'd like to make .  In doing this, I try to make so called  " S . M . A . R . T .  Goals, "  which stands for specific, measurable, attainable, roll tide .  Sorry no that's not it; that's the Alabama in me coming out .  It's specific, measurable, attainable, Rob Thomas .  No, whatever, I make SMA goals . Like last year, for instance, I set myself a goal of making ten episodes of a new podcast called the Anthropocene Reviewed .  Which I did !  I actually made eleven and it has been great .  It's been much more work than I imagined, as things tend to be, but also more fun and Nadim Silverman at WNYC made this amazing illustration for the new episode .   And in general, it has been good to kind of, like, force my brain into quiet contemplation amid, like, the loudness everywhere .  On the other hand, I also set myself goals I didn't achieve .  Like, I wanted to make a cooking history video series with Sarah, and that did not happen because we didn't make time for it .  This year is going to be a little bit different because most of my goals involve doing less .  Like as I talked about in a previous video, I have a goal to post zero times to Twitter, Reddit, Instagram, and Facebook .  That should be a pretty easy goal and yet I am very worried about my ability to actually do it .  Also I want to travel for work less .  I want to spend fewer than twenty nights away from my kids this year .  That will also be tough because a lot is happening outside of Indianapolis this year, like the Looking for Alaska Hulu series will probably film this year as will a movie adaptation of Let it Snow, a book Maureen Johnson, Lauren Myracle, and I wrote .   And there is the possibility of a Turtles All the Way Down movie and I want to be present for all of that stuff, but for me , I think parenthood is not just about quality time, it is also about quantity time and so I have to make trade-offs .  There are some things I want to do more of .  I want to read at least two books per month and be a productive member of the Life's Library book club community, which by the way is going great .  If you are or want to be part of Life's Library, go to lifeslibrarybookclub . com it's so wonderful .   And in addition to writing another eleven episodes of The Anthropocene Reviewed, I want to edit and host 46 episodes of a new Crash Course History series about Europe .   But my biggest professional goal and the one I'm most hesitant to acknowledge publicly because I have a history of failing to meet my writing goals is that I'd like to write five thousand words a month of a new novel .  I won't be finished by the end of the year, but I'll be started .  So those are my SMA-ish goals for 2019 .  I wonder what your goals are for the new year .  You don't have to share them here, of course, although you're welcome to, but I really do encourage you to write them down and keep track of them .  I can't do much to prevent the government from shutting down, but I do want to do whatever I can to prevent myself from shutting down .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                  
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday . So as of tomorrow I will be one month in to my year without social media .  I left Reddit, Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter because I felt like I couldn't effectively regulate the amount of time I was spending on those platforms or the experience I was having, and also I was looking at my phone hundreds of times per day which just kind of freaked me out .  So I decided to take a year off . For my computer I use a Chrome extension called StayFocused which has a so-called  " nuclear "  option where you can block access to certain websites completely .   And then I use the screen time app on my phone to disable safari and the app store and I deleted all of the, like, attention grabbing apps . Now, my phone still does a lot of things .  It can order food, and hail rides, and check in for flights, and take high resolution video, and predict the weather, and also it's a phone ! Now that I think about it, it's basically a magic wand .  It's just a magic wand that can't tell me how people feel about Will Smith being in the Aladdin movie .  How's it going so far ?  Um, okay .  The first thing I learned is that without really being aware of it I type the words  " Reddit "  and  " Twitter "  and  " Facebook "  into a web browser, like, dozens of times per day . Like I had noticed that it had become harder to, like, lose myself in a book, for instance, without feeling the urge to check my phone or open my computer .   But I did not realize how fractured my attention had become or how many times per day I would answer the first hint of boredom or stasis by going to Reddit .  A month in, I am happier .  Or at least less anxious . One of the weird things about social media for me is that it tends to make me feel very itchy in a way that only social media can scratch .   And turning it off has mostly cured that itch . Also I have more time .  I had time, for instance, to write an Art Assignment video about Agnes Martin, which you can check out in the doobly doo .   And I have more time with my family, which is nice .  Another advantage is that I spend less time looking at the news, but I think I might be better informed .  Like I have a much better idea, for instance, of what's going on in Yemen than I did a month ago .  Also because I'm reading my hometown newspaper I feel like I understand my IRL community a bit better .  Lastly, I'm getting bored more often .  Now, don't get me wrong, boredom is unpleasant .   But if I can let myself be bored, which is a big  " if "  as I'll get to in a moment, then I find myself, like, having thoughts .  Which is really nice .  Also those thoughts, because I can't share them on Twitter, are, like, mine . All that noted, leaving the social internet hasn't been, like, the magical experience I'd hoped for .  For one thing, I miss it more than I expected to .  I miss reading funny Reddit threads on soccer .  I miss the feeling of camaraderie on Twitter .   But the bigger issue   is that simply eliminating certain social media platforms from my life doesn't fix anything .  It doesn't unfracture my attention and it doesn't make my information diet inherently healthier because it turns out there are lots of other websites that are happy to feed without nourishing and distract without enriching . Not being able to get to, like, any websites on my phone has been really good for me, I think, but I need the internet on my computer and more to the point, the internet is not the problem .  My internet is the problem .  And the thing that I've learned this moth is that for my internet to change, I need to change . For the next ten weeks over at CrashCourse I'm hosting a series on navigating digital information .  It tries to take an evidence-based approach to evaluating the quality of the information we encounter online and spotting and dismissing misinformation . Now, I have sometimes believed that I'm, like, immune to misinformation, but I've come to understand that such a belief actually makes you more susceptible to it .  And the tools I've learned through working on this CrashCourse have been super helpful to me .  Both in terms of how I research online, and in terms of what kinds of information I ingest . In fact, I think it's positively affected my internet more than any particular website I've blocked, so I really hope you'll check it out .  That said, I am gonna stay off social media for the rest of the year . I don't know that I recommend it in general, but I think it is necessary for me .  I need to discover more of what lies on the other side of boredom .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .   I really liked your video on Friday about burn-out and motivation and the various fuels we use to keep our engines running, and it made me think about how beginning just after my 24th birthday, I spent most of my nights and weekends working on the novel that would eventually become Looking for Alaska .   I worked all day for Booklist and then after work would usually read the books I'd been assigned to review for a couple hours and then I would write until 11 or midnight every night, and this was possible because I was burning in the smithy of my soul an extremely efficient but dirty fuel called  " resentment "  . Like, despite the fact that I'd benefited from all manner of privileges and good fortunes, I'd somehow managed to imagine myself as a plucky underdog who'd been the victim of grave injustices .   These injustices included being dumped by a girl I loved, not being as handsome as I wished to be, and not having had any breaks in my nascent publishing career .   Now, in actuality, I'd had many breaks like I happened to have an editor at Booklist in Ilene Cooper who mentored me through the writing process .   Also, I had a job at Booklist that paid me, albeit modestly, to read books and write about them, but whatever, you can have 70-million YouTube subscribers and still imagine yourself as a plucky underdog .   The human capacity for self-pity is truly endless, and for good reason, because no matter how fortunate we are, our condition is kind of pitiable .   Even the most powerful humans are fragile and mortal creatures in a very large universe that is indifferent to their needs but I digress . Right, so I was 24 and I was able to work more or less constantly fueled by this overarching resentment and here's the thing: it worked .   Like, I got a lot done and some of it was good, or at the very least, impressive, which is what I really wanted, of course .   I wanted to impress people .   I wanted to show them how clever I could be about narrative structure, about the distance between the story and the truth, about precipitation metaphors, et cetera, and for me, that's the problem with resentment as fuel .   It makes your work entirely about you .   Like, the story I was writing had no guts .   It's griefs grieved on no universal bones, to borrow a Faulkner phrase .   The narrator in that story could look hard at everyone except for himself, and the story felt distant and cold, as if it was being recounted when it needed to feel like it was being revealed .  To steal a line from Shakespere,  " Resentment is a fire that burns with more light than heat .  "   I haven't read Looking for Alaska in almost 15 years, and to be honest, I don't remember that much about it, but from what I can gather, almost none of what people like about that story was in those drafts that were fueled by the effective but toxic fire of resentment .   I think I needed to write all that stuff to understand what was wrong with Miles' way of looking at other people and also what was wrong with my way, but to finish the book, Miles needed to grow up and so did I .   I had to find a fuel that burned warmer, if less bright, and that took years, but eventually, Looking for Alaska did become something I worked on as a gift for other people rather than as like, a document of my attempted cleverness .   That said, I still find myself returning to resentment as fuel and having to learn again and again that while it can make me productive, it doesn't produce much I'm proud of .   Three last things: first, Rosianna and I are hiring someone in Indianapolis to help us make the things that we make .   If you're uncommonly organized and really good at calling strangers, which is to say, nothing like me, then please check out the link in the doobly-doo .   Two: speaking of things Rosianna and I are making, if you're part of the Life's Library book club, our Q&A with author Jacquelyn Woodson will be January 31st at noon, Eastern time, more info below, and lastly, if you are in need of some excellent Valentines, Nerdfighter Sharon has you covered .   You can get these at DFTBA . com .   Hank, thanks again for your video .   I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  Great news !   " Netflix Casts Starry Ensemble for Adaptation of John Green's 'Let It Snow' "    It's true, sort of .  It's definitely a starry ensemble .    Kiernan Shipka from chilling Adventures of Sabrina .  Shameik Moore from Spider-Man: Into The Spider-Verse .    Mitchell Hope, Odeya Rush, Anna Akana, Joan freakin' Cusack !    I could not agree more with Vulture's assessment that this is  " a Very Charming Cast for Netflix's John Green adaptation 'Let It Snow' .  "     And I share the sense of anticipation expressed in the headline  " Netflix is Bringing This John Green Novel To Life  And We Can't Wait .  "    There is a problem though, which is that this John Green novel is not a John Green novel .    So back in 2007 and 2008 my friends Lauren Myracle and Maureen Johnson and I wrote a book together called  " Let It Snow .  "    We each wrote one romance story, set at nearly the same time in the same town in North Carolina during a blizzard .     And then we work together to interconnect the stories in little ways so that each story would be kind of a window into the others .    We had so much fun writing this book and I really hope that you can feel the joy when you read it .     But the point is it is exactly as much Lauren and Maureen's book as it is mine .    Quick side note to emphasize how excited I am about the casting and how amazing this whole thing is .  Like when Lauren and Maureen and I wrote this book   I had this like secret hope that it would one day be turned into a movie, but that hope was so unrealistic and ludicrous that I was embarrassed about it .     And now we're here and the director Luke Snellin is a wonderful guy and the script is incredible   like it made me cry with laughter, but also you know how sometimes you cry because something is just so sweet and lovely and aww !    Yes that !   But right, I get why this is happening in the press about the movie-   Lauren and Maureen are both successful and acclaimed authors, but my name probably gets more clicks .   And I get that it is hard to write a headline that contains the names of three separate authors and also several actors .     But I think this kind of thing can become a self-fulfilling prophecy-   like my name is in those headlines because I am better known but I am better known in part because my name is in those headlines .    I feel like maybe the better way to handle this would be for instance    " Netflix's YA Christmas Movie 'Let It Snow' Has a Chillingly Good Cast Led By Kiernan Shipka .  "   which also gets points for the chilling puns, but in the end of that headline might get fewer clicks because it isn't packed with names optimized for search engines .    Now I realize this is not the world's biggest deal and might, in fact, be the world's smallest deal, but it's a personal experience of a broader phenomenon that concerns me which is that clickability is more important than accuracy .    Those of us who make stuff online want algorithms to pick our stuff and so we are incentivized to tell you whatever truth will hold and capture your attention because that's what the algorithms want to do .    This isn't quite the same thing as being untrustworthy or spreading misinformation   like, John Green's 'Let It Snow' really is coming to Netflix with an amazing cast-   It's just that Lauren Myracle and Maureen Johnson's 'Let It Snow' are too .     And so you end up seeing, at least in the headlines, stories that are true while also being distorted .  You end up seeing A truth that will grab your attention which is never quite THE truth .    Of course this isn't new- like when I was a kid, the 11 o'clock news would always start with something like  " Is this factory poisoning children ?  More after the break .  "     And it doesn't mean the websites I read or the local news I watch are inherently evil or anything   I just think understanding what media wants from you helps you to understand what they're providing to you .    I know it often feels like as readers and viewers, we have no control over the huge forces that are shaping information flow   but I actually think if we pay careful attention to the information we ingest, we do end up changing the way information works, at least for ourselves .    So yeah, I can't wait for Lauren Myracle and Maureen Johnson and John Green's 'Let It Snow' to be a movie !    Hank, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank it's Tuesday .  On November 23rd, 1984, I watched a college football game between Boston College and the University of Miami . In general, I didn't care much about sports--I was not, you'll be surprised to learn, a particularly athletic child .   But this game held my attention--so much so that I started crying when, with less than thirty seconds to go in the game, Miami took a seemingly insurmountable lead .   But then Boston College's diminutive quarterback Doug Flutie threw a 52-yard pass to his roommate and best friend Gerard Phelan, and Boston College won the game in what came to be called the Miami Miracle, and my dad threw me in the air, and I felt the purest joy I'd ever known and in a way, most of what I've done in my life since has been an attempt to understand, celebrate, and/or re-create that moment .  I'm after the feeling that Al Michaels had when he famously exclaimed,  " Do you believe in miracles ?  YES !  " Like, I am very interested in what's called radical hope, the idea that existential hope is available to all people at all times .  It's kind of the founding value of my belief system, and I'm pretty sure I believe in it not because of theology or philosophy or whatever, but because I have seen with my own eyes that even when there is not really much cause for hope, hope is still the correct response to the human condition, as evidenced by the ridiculous and beautiful hope of Doug Flutie and Gerard Phelan . Of course, I know there is nothing miraculous about a completed hail mary, or the U . S .  defeating the USSR in hockey .  By definition, improbabilities usually don't occur but occasionally do .  I'm not looking for anything supernatural; I just want to have hope, and more than that, to be unalone in that hope .  For me, there is nothing like being in a virtual space or real room or stadium with people whose hope is oriented in the same direction as mine, and who love the same thing I love .  I don't think you need to get that feeling from sports--you can get it from concerts or book clubs or by being heavily invested in Martian rover landings .   But ultimately this urge to find and share hope is why I write and make videos and work in my garden, and it's also why I sponsor the third tier English soccer club AFC Wimbledon, who wear DFTBA on their shorts, and who have shown me again and again that hope is the thing with feathers that perches in the soul and sings the tune without the words and never stops at all .  Wimbledon have had an extraordinarily difficult season--they are in last place in their division, facing the prospect of being relegated into the fourth tier of English football .   But somehow amid this disaster, they made it to the fourth round of a different competition, called the FA Cup, where they faced off against West Ham United, a premier league team that has the distinction of being the only football club mentioned by name in the Harry Potter books .  West Ham have several individual players who make more money per year than AFC Wimbledon's entire annual budget .   And yet .  .  . Kwesi Appiah scored   to put Wimbledon 1-0 up, and then Scott Wagstaff tore through West Ham's defense to create a breakaway and then finished as calmly as you like to make it 2-0, and then Scott Wagstaff scored again, and then 19-year-old Toby Sibbick scored, and AFC Wimbledon beat West Ham 4-2, and in a basement in Indianapolis I found myself in tears, overwhelmed with gratitude for the football club that had again shown me the meaning of life .  It is never wrong to be hopeful, and anyone who tells you otherwise just hasn't watched enough AFC Wimbledon games .  The FA Cup is now down to its final sixteen teams, and Wimbledon is among them .  In the next round, we'll face off against Milwall, a club a division ahead of us .  We can't possibly win that game, of course .  Or can we ?  Hank, I'll see you on Friday . p . s .  three things: First, I wrote a defense of sports in general and penalty shootouts in particular on the most recent episode of The Anthropocene Reviewed; a new episode comes out Thursday .  Second, if you're interested in our book club Life's Library but didn't get to sign up before, there are a few slots open now at lifeslibrarybookclub . com; and lastly if you've ever wanted to be part-owner of a third tier English football club, there's never been a better time .  For 25 pounds a year, or around 30 dollars, you can become a member of the Dons Trust, which owns the club, and make AFC Wimbledon's next miracle your miracle .  Links in the dooblydoo below !                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday . So textbooks are expensive !  In fact, since I was born, average textbook prices have gone up by a factor more than 8 - Far faster than inflation, or the housing crisis, or even medical care . Americans spent over 10 billion dollars last year on textbooks which is significantly more than we spent on all fiction .  Like, every print book and e-book and audiobook of Harry Potter and The Great Gatsby and Goodnight Moon and those thrillers your dad reads and oh my god we spend so much money on textbooks .   And what makes all of this a little weird is that while textbooks are much more expensive than they used to be, they are also, like, less important . When I was a kid when I wanted to learn about, say, geometry, textbooks were basically the only way .   But now there are lots of options !  There's mathagon, an extraordinarily intuitive series of online courses that have interactive elements to help you understand and confirm what you're learning . Or you can watch Three Blue One Brown videos that help visualize complicated mathematical concepts .  Or you can follow Khan Academy series on Geometry .   And all these learning tools and many others are entirely free ! Now in many cases, they are not as comprehensive as textbooks but on the other hand, they are much more interactive and also able to adapt to different needs for different students .   And just to reiterate, instead of costing 10 billion dollars per year   they cost nothing .  Okay so every year Bill and Melinda Gates release an annual letter and this year's letter is about surprises they've learned - from the ways that data can be sexist to house slow innovation in toilet technology has harmed human health - and they also say that textbooks are becoming obsolete . If you're interested in this kind of stuff you should read the entire letter    but in it Melinda points out that almost half of college students are over the age of 25 and more than half have a job .   And she writes that these students often don't have the time or resources to effectively navigate an inefficient inflexible learning environment .  I am definitely not an expert in this but, anecdotally, I do hear that from a lot of students like price of educational materials is one barrier to post-secondary education but the way those materials work or don't work is another barrier .  And then from middle school and high school students I often hear there is a huge divide between the way that students actually learn and the way the teachers often want to teach and the textbooks and other educational materials they are required to use .  Most textbook buying decisions are not made by a student or teachers or even School administrators - they are made at the district or state level .  Now, of course, this standardization does exist for a reason . It's an attempt to make sure that teachers are using comprehensive and reliable resources to teach kids what they need to know .  Also, I think people in so-called edutech have spent way too much time trying to replace teachers which just ain't going to work in my opinion like there is no way to replace the incredibly vital person-to-person work that teachers do .  As Bill says in the letter, effective educational materials should seek to be a compliment to what teachers do, not a replacement . So are textbooks becoming obsolete ?  Maybe, but I worry that, like other things in our economy that are growing more expensive, textbooks are somewhat impervious to the law of supply and demand .  Like the actual consumers   often don't have a lot of choice when it comes to textbooks which I think limits innovation and also makes them artificially expensive . The truth is I have no idea how this will shake out .  I'm terrible at predicting the future but I will say this - I got a C- in my 10th-grade geometry which, if anything, was generous and I've always been really embarrassed about not understanding even the basics of high school math .  I had good teachers but they had a lot of students and I just couldn't get it from the textbooks but then at the end and I work my way through Mathagon's geometry courses with some help from a real-life math teacher and while I was learning I kept being like oh wow cool . Now I understand how tessellations work .   And that makes me optimistic in spite of it all .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday                
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  It's Question Tuesday, the day I answer real questions from real nerdfighters .  People had a lot of tough questions today, so we're goin' deep .  " I feel really alone and isolated and I don't know what to do .  How do I break this cycle and go outside ?  " I know what you mean about it being a cycle like whenever I feel lonely, I often do things that distract me, but ultimately make my loneliness worse .  And then I'm deeper into it, which makes it harder to crawl out of and that can start to feel infinite, but it is not . It does get better, it will get better .   And I don't think this is happening because you lack courage, but I do encourage you to talk to someone today that you trust in real life .  A parent, a teacher, a friend, someone .   And tell them that you are struggling and need support .  " What is the meaning of life ?  " Ah geez !  I think it's different for different people, and even different at different times .   But for me right now, it's to try to use the gift of human consciousness to pay attention .  " What are some things you're enjoying now that you're off social media ?  " So, the first time I fell in love, like, nothing felt real unless I either experienced it with the person I loved or told them about it later .  And I think that's kind of how I treated Instagram and Twitter for the last couple years .  Like, an experiences realness was partly contingent upon its sharedness .  And I'm really enjoying looking at things outside the frame of shareability .  " Do you collect anything that other people might not understand, but brings you joy ?  " Yes, football scarves .  Admittedly, they have very limited function, but what a beautiful form .  " How can you make yourself like physics ?  " Watch Minute Physics .   But more generally I think that sometimes it feels like the point of school is to take tests and get grades and feel a constant gnawing stomach flipping worry .   But, in fact, the point of school is to understand the universe better and physics can help you do that .  " What's your favorite movie right now ?  " My favorite movie forever is Harvey .  In fact, it's one of the subjects of the next Anthropocene Reviewed .  " Can we get more frequent episodes of the Anthropocene Reviewed ?  " Alas, it takes an entire month for me to write one .  " What do you think of people who still write 'first' in the comments section of videos in 2019 ?  " I think it's great actually .  I like any tradition that isn't offensive and can survive for 12 years online .  In fact, check out the first comment of this video .  " Is getting a liberal arts degree useless ?  " I mean I suppose it depends on what you think the point of life is .   But from my perspective, no . I mean I studied English and religious studies, and look at me !  Sittin' here in a basement, talkin' to a camera . If you wanna maximize your lifetime income, then you probably shouldn't get a liberal arts degree .   But I don't think that's the only metric by which the quality of a human life should be judged .  " Can you talk about the turtles all the way down movie ?  " Yes, I wrote a book called Turtles All the Way Down and now it is being made into a movie, hopefully, and Hannah Marks has been hired as the director .   And she is so wonderful and I am not just saying that because she often watches these videos .  " Do you still eat cereal with water ?  " Yes and it is still delicious and I refuse to be shamed for my watery cereal .  I thin it is weird that all of you people drink your cereal with cow juice .   " What advice would you give yourself 12 years ago when you started vlogbrothers ?  " Edit the jumps cuts a little bit tighter .  Also, ridiculing someone else's world view does not make anything better .  That is still advice I should give myself actually .  " What advice would you give your high school self ?  " Ahh, I would tell him that I know it's hard and he's doing ok .   And he is more loved than he knows and also worthy of love .   And also I would tell him to smoke fewer cigarettes .   " I have so little faith in humanity .  I have seen so much pain .  How do I keep myself from going apathetic ?  " You are right that there is a lot of pain in the world and I am sorry you have seen so much of it .   And I can't know or identify with your pain in particular .   But I have felt despair in response to pain .   And I have been pulled down deep by that despair .   And I have found plenty of justification for it .   But in the end, I believe that despair is simple and humanity is complex .  There is cause for despair but there is also cause for other feelings .  I think we have to see and listen to the pain .   But we also have to see and listen to joy and the hope and the progress both in individual lives and in our life as a species .   And for me at least, that is how I escape the apathy trap . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday ! I recently found myself at an airport, as I often do, sitting at the gate waiting for my flight to board and I couldn't stop thinking about how everyone in the airport would, within a century or so, be dead . Which, in and of itself, isn't that worrisome to me, like I think about that a lot when I'm in a room full of strangers- look at all of these people gathered together at gate A7 by a shared desire to go to Detroit on a Wednesday afternoon .  And I think about how one day soon this moment will feel distant and we'll find it odd that in 2019 people worried about X or believed Y or wore clothing item Z .   And this present moment will feel fixed and distant like an old picture does- like history .   And then eventually this moment will be entirely forgotten because all of the people who shared it will be gone and isn't it kind of absurd how temporary we are despite all our efforts to feel permanent; the pictures we save; the emails we archive; the luggage we buy with a lifetime guarantee, as if a lifetime is a long time . All of which, I would argue, is totally normal and healthy stuff to think about when you are alone in an airport and the wifi is very slow .   But then, I started to think some more .  .  .   And I started to feel really nihilistic and angry and kind of disgusted by everything . Like in a century we'll all be dead, including this guy sitting three seats away from me talking on his bluetooth headset about supply chains and I cannot believe how loudly that guy is talking and also just how much stuff everyone has ?  Phones and luggage and highly stylised clothing .  And then I start thinking about how this is the Hunger Games and how I am a resident of the Capital and how all this stuff we've acquired and cared about will end up in landfills and how our air travel is adding so much carbon to the atmosphere and not for any good reason in the end . Because we'll all be corpses soon and I've become disgusted by the meaninglessness of it all and how blithely all these people are walking around pretending that human effort matters when our species itself will be gone in a geologic nanosecond .  We will be nothing but an odd brief blip on the radar of this planet's story, which itself is an odd brief blip in the larger cosmic story and nothing matters and people who believe otherwise are mindless idiots .  It is astonishing to me how quickly my mind can journey from  " I bet people of the future will feel like our clothes looked weird "  to  " all effort is meaningless because nothing matters .  "  Like, I'm never more than a couple of minutes of thinking away from abject nihilistic despair, but then, when I go to the airport with a friend or something, I'll eat a soft pretzel and chat amiably about the travails of AFC Wimbledon and feel like the human enterprise is good and noble and beautiful .  Brains are so weird ! The thing is, I think both these world-views are correct .  Like, human life is beautiful and also we are all going to die and much of what we care about will be rendered irrelevant by the in-rushing tide of time .  The question for me is not so much  " which of these ways of looking at the world is true "  its  " which of these ways of looking at the world is productive "  ?   And if despair actually decreased my carbon emissions I'd be all for it, but mostly it just kind of renders me empty and inert .  I work when I feel hope, when I am able, as F Scott Fitzgerald once put it  " to hold in balance the sense of the futility of effort and the sense of the necessity to struggle "  .  Ultimately I believe that effort is never futile so long as there are people to share in that effort and people who might benefit from it .  In the grand scheme of things, maybe nothing will matter but we don't live in the grand scheme of things- we live here in the day-to-day, at gate A7 on an early Wednesday afternoon, and we struggle on together not because humans are great and eternal but because we are vulnerable and weak .  We need each other .  We struggle on in the hopes that the lives to come and of the worlds to come, but also in the hope of the lives we are sharing now .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank it's Tuesday, I'm a little sick sorry about my voice . Okay so I've been thinking about this picture for a little over half my life .  One of my favourite books is about it, I made a Vlogbrothers video about it, I even own a recent print of it .   And so when Sarah asked if I'd be interested in making an Art Assignment video about the picture, which is known as 'Three Young Farmers on Their Way to a Dance' and was taken by the German photographer August Sander in 1914, I said  " Of course !  "  and started doing some research . Whereupon I fell way way down the rabbit hole .  One of the great pleasures of research for me is that I can become consumed by it .  Like, I started out on a German language newspaper site about who those boys actually were, where I learned that they were not, in fact, farmers .   And then pretty soon I was on genealogy sites and looking up military records and google maps and obituaries . I just love that feeling of being lost in a world of research, like Rebecca Solnit wrote:  " Lost really has two disparate meanings .  Losing things is about the familiar falling away; getting lost is about the unfamiliar appearing "  .   And as I learned more about the young farmers who weren't actually farmers, I got both kinds of lost .  This utterly familiar picture turned out not to be what I thought it was and something unfamiliar began to appear .  Along the way, I learned about two other pictures, which I couldn't find anywhere on the internet and I don't think have ever been publicly seen .  One was another photograph by Sander, taken three years earlier, that showed one of the boys- Otto Krieger- with his family .  The negative for that photo was probably destroyed during World War II along with 30 thousand other Sander negatives but there seemed to be a print of it somewhere .  The other picture was a postcard sent home by the boy in the middle- August Klein- as he and Otto prepared for war .  I mean I understand this is not a big deal to most people, but those boys are the subject of one of the most important photographs of the 20th century and there were more pictures of them out there that could give us a glimpse of their lives both before and after the critical moment of history that was the late spring of 1914 .  But despite combing through every Sander picture ever published, I couldn't find them .   And then after a few days, I was at a dead end when it occurred to me that I actually knew a team of extremely talented cyber sleuths in the form of Tuataria- the community that sprang up when Rosianna and I were running a scavenger hunt before Turtles All The Way Down was published .  Tuatara is very very good at solving mysteries and so I asked them for their help- could they verify what I had already learned, and possibly hunt down those two other pictures ?  Indeed, they could, via correspondence with the extraordinary reporter Reinhard Pabst, we eventually found the pictures and secured the rights to share them . Here is Otto Krieger aged 17, three years before Sander took the famous photograph and also three years before Otto would go to the front to fight in World War I .   And here are Otto and August, after war has broken out .  You will note the distance between their expressions in the famous photo and in this one, which was only taken a few months later .  I tell the whole story, or at least what I know of it, in the Art Assignment video, which I'll link to in the dooblydoo below, but I wanted to tell the story behind the story here for two reasons . First, this whole experience has reminded me that just because you look at something, or someone, everyday, doesn't mean you're seeing all that there is to see .   And secondly, mysteries large and small usually don't get solved by one person .  Like, we talk a lot about the human capacity for competition but I think our secret weapon as a species is our capacity for collaboration .  So thank you to Reinhard Pabst and everyone at Tuataria for working together to give us two more glimpses into those young lives . Hank, I hope you enjoy the Art Assignment video, again the link is below, I will see you on Friday .  P . S .  We're opening up some more slots in the Life's Library Book Club if you wanna read books with Rosianna and me and a vibrant community of readers which incidentally includes many people from Tuataria .  You can learn more at lifeslibrarybookclub . com   . Alright, I gotta go drink some tea with honey in it .  
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday . I spent the weekend with Charlie and Christine, or Miles and Alaska - and Sarah, their director .  The 8-episode Hulu adaptation of my first novel,  " Looking for Alaska, "  is supposed to begin shooting soon, and I wanted to show them around my old haunts . The trip was supposed to be for them, so they could see the place I based Culver Creek on, but I realized that it was mostly for me .  We walked around the campus of my old high school which looks vastly different from when I was a student there, but still somehow retained its old spirit .  We visited the gym, including our academic decathlon banners, toured the school's incredible art studios and talked to some students .  And then, after a while, Charlie and Christine wandered off to look at the campus while I chatted with a couple of my old classmates .  When you write a book, you have to let it go at some point .  You stop fiddling with the text and the story is set in print .  And then, it isn't yours anymore - not really .  It belongs to the people who read it, which is a wonderful and painful surrender .   But Looking for Alaska was always different for me, partly because the book is about a kid from Florida who goes to a boarding school in Alabama and I was a kid from Florida who goes to a boarding school in Alabama . The story is fictional, but I was only 23 when I started writing it and of course I saw myself in Miles and in the other characters too .  Alaska's self-destructive impulses were mine .  The Colonel's fit of rage were mine .  And since the story was published, I've often worried that I left too much exposed .  The truth is, I wrote the book because I wanted to go home, which I mean the fall of 1993 - smoking cigarettes under this bridge with people I loved who loved me .  I'd never loved peers like that before; ferociously without any self-consciousness or fear . That couldn't have last of course and it didn't .  As the graffitied Walt Whitman quote puts it so succinctly,  "  These are the days that must happen to you .  "   And after, you can go back to the smoking hole and its beautiful graffiti, but you can't be home again .   And so, I wrote the book to attempt time travel . What if I could go to the past, imagine things differently, make different choices ?  Maybe through fiction, I would be allowed back into the home from which time and loss had expelled me .   But even after years of working on the book, I still had no answer for why the center cannot hold . What I learnt along the way is that novels do not solve problems or heal wounds to whatever .  When the story works, it is because the story, as Emily Dickinson put it,  " tells all the truth but tells its slant "  .  Because I have failed so spectacularly at letting go of this book, I often felt that I have carried Miles and Alaska around with me these last 15 years - which has been lovely at times and at other times very difficult .  But as I watched Christine and Charlie walking away from me that afternoon, I felt that Miles and Alaska were also walking away, off to explore Culver Creek together .   And I felt myself letting go at last .  Charlie and Christine are both so passionate and generous and kind and, in many ways, they know Alaska and Miles better than I do . With Sara and the rest of the people working on the show, they're building home together, and I don't feel envious and possessive .  I just feel grateful .  There go Miles and Alaska, off to experience the adventures I imagined for them - yes, but also many more adventures . It's their story now and I can't wait to see how they tell it .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .   Greetings from an undisclosed location where they're filming the Looking for Alaska Hulu show .   It's Question Tuesday, the day that I answer real questions from real Nerdfighters .   Let's get right to it .  What would you nominate as the most overrated fruit ? For me, it's definitely 'Of The Loom' .   I just think massively overrated .   Any good book recommendations ? I really enjoyed this biography of Rosalind Franklin, which I would show you but it's currently part of my very complicated tripod setup .   It's not so much a tripod as it is a sculpture, but anyway, there's the biography of Rosalind Franklin . How do you stay happy when so much of the news we hear about is bad ? Oh, I don't stay happy .   I get really angry and discouraged but I don't wanna be like, merely angry and discouraged, because I don't think that reflects the whole human story .   Like, a lot of people got married today and wonderful babies were born .   God, I love babies .   I mean, not enough to have another one, but in the abstract .   My point is that lots of people made their like, best ever memories today .   Human life is vast and it contains multitudes and I don't want to essentualize it into one narrative or another .   What is your Myers Brigg personality type and does it happen to be INFP ? I don't really believe in personality tests, but it is nonetheless very impressive that you correctly guessed my Myers Brigg result .   What's the best thing that happened to you in the last week ? Meeting all the actors and seeing all the sets for the Looking for Alaska show has been really amazing .   Also, Vulture named The Anthropocene Reviewed one of their favorite podcasts, which was cool, but the best thing that happened to me this week was that my kids and I planted peas in the garden .   I'm very excited for my peas . What are you planting in the garden this year ? Lots of stuff !   How did you quit smoking ? With nicotine gum .   The hard part was actually quitting the nicotine gum . What song makes you cry ? Sometimes, I cry when I listen to the best ever death metal band out of Denton by The Mountain Goats .   I keep finding spiders in my bedroom and bathroom and my parents have told me they have no sympathy for my situation .   How do I get them to care enough to help me get rid of these spiders ? So I think the most likely underlying issue here is that your parents may be human shaped conglomerations of spiders, in which case, I mean, of course they're not gonna kill their own kind, so you just gotta live with your spider parents . What's your favorite word right now ? Hermaneutics .   I don't really know what it means, but that's never slowed me down . If you could have the superpowers of any of the Avengers for a day, which would you choose ? Is there an Avenger who has the power to think about like, approximately what the response to an e-mail should be and then have a fully formed e-mail appear in the compose box, because that one . Who's your favorite Catholic saint ? Probably St .  Francis, although if Sister   were to be canonized, she would immediately become my favorite Catholic saint as explained in this recent Art Assignment video . Are you ever gonna write a new book ? I hope so . Have you ever considered writing a memoir ? I sort of am, monthly, in the form of The Anthropocene Reviewed . Over, under, or in between ? Through .   As Robert Frost put it,  " the only way out is through .  " Alright, Hank, I have to go back to watching things that I imagined 15 years ago become visible .   I will see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  Sara and I spent last week in Sierra Leone learning about the healthcare system there and along the way we visited Kissy Psychiatric Hospital-a 199 year old facility that is the only mental health hospital in the country . This was of some personal interest to me because I have been, at one level or another, a psychiatric patient for most of my life . The hospital is led by Dr .  Abdul Jalloh, one of the only psychiatrists in Sierra Leone-a nation of over seven million people . He explained that as recently as a year ago, life in the hospital was extremely dire for both staff and patients .  " No medication .  No water supply .  No electricity .  The toilets were not functional .  Almost everything was in a state of collapse .  " Dr .  Jalloh keeps a picture in his office to remind him of what the hospital looked like recently .  It was truly horrific . Perhaps most disturbingly, many patients were chained to their beds for much of the day and night .  As we walked around, a staff member showed me a poster about chaining that had been sent to the hospital years ago .  The poster was really frustrating to the staff because everyone wanted to end chaining but without medication or any functioning infrastructure, they couldn't find another way to keep aggressive patients from harming themselves or others .  They didn't need posters-they needed support . The staff walked me through one ward where the tile had been broken up to prepare for renovations but otherwise it looked as it had for decades .  We visited what was, until recently, the hospital pharmacy and I was told that these shelves had long been nearly empty . I mean imagine no water for showers or to flush toilets .  No medications to treat the immensity of psychic pain .  Very few clinicians to offer cognitive therapy and no electricity . There were generators-two huge ones donated years ago by a charity-but they turned out to be much too powerful for the hospital's electrical grid and shorted everything out .  Had the charity asked, the staff would have explained what kind of generator they needed .  But no one asked--at least not until Partners in Health began working with Sierra Leone's Ministry of Health, along with Dr .  Jalloh, his staff, and the patient population to improve the hospital . They brought in the right generator and now the hospital wards have lights and functioning fans .  They also worked increase staffing at the hospital and brought medications in-hundreds of medications actually, stored in a climate controlled room . The beds and mattresses were replaced and running water was restored so that toilets and sinks and showers would work again .   And because medications and other treatments are not available, many patients have been able to move out of the hospital and live at home . As one nurse explained to me,  " We have patients that are now working in offices .  Some are doing their businesses and also doing well in their daily activities .  " Just a year ago, almost everyone who received care from Kissy stayed at the hospital .  Now most of their patients are able to live at home and, critically, the practice of chaining has ended .  Patients now walk freely about their care area and when patients do become a threat to themselves or others, humane restraints are used .   But even that is now rare . Several patients took the time to talk with me and one long-term patient spoke of how life has changed at Kissy in the past two years:  " We enjoy the lights .  We enjoy the fans .  We enjoy the television .  We enjoy our new beds you   .  " Of course no one wants to be a patient at a psychiatric hospital .  Chronic mental illness is extremely difficulty to live with, even in the best of circumstances .  And there is still a long way to go at Kissy-more areas to be renovated and opened, including this room which will become a lecture hall to train the next generation of Sierra Leonean clinicians and this soon to be opened ward that will serve as the country's first dedicated drug addiction rehabilitation center .  And as Sierra Leoneans begin to trust that the mental health care system can offer effective treatment, the demand for services will continue to rise, which will lead to new challenges .   But the transformation so far is truly profound and it has immeasurably improved the lives of the patient population here . I feel a kinship with them because I owe my life to effective mental health treatment .  The kind of treatment that these patients are at last beginning to receive . We saw again and again in Sierra Leone that individual interventions of poster campaign, a donated generator often failed to be transformative, in part because it's not one thing or another that needs to change--it's the system . The problem isn't infrastructure or chaining or staffing or medicines or running water or electricity--all of this must change together .  Isolated investments often yield isolated results but if you invest in systems, you can get systemic results-and by investing I don't just mean money .  I also mean investing the time and attention to listen carefully rather than just barging in with preconceived solutions . That's what our community has learned from working with Partners in Health for the last decade .  PIH is successful because it builds systems and because it listens to the people it seeks to serve .  It's no coincidence that 96% of PIH Sierra Leone's employees are Sierra Leonean .  Conclusion  In the coming months and years, Hank and I will be focusing more on providing ongoing, long-term support to strengthen the health care system in Sierra Leone and that will be the biggest project we've ever undertaken on this channel by far--which is intimidating, but the need is immediate and it is critical .  And when I look at what the staff and patients at Kissy Psychiatric Hospital have accomplished in the last two years, I know that real change is possible . We'll be talking much more about this in the coming months but in the meantime, I really hope you'll sign up for our new newsletter about the Sierra Leone project to learn more .  There is a link the doobly-doo below .  I will also be in comments to answer your questions .  Lastly, a huge thanks to everyone at PIH and Kissy Psychiatric Hospital for sharing their time, experiences, and expertise with us . Hank, I will see you on Friday .  
Good morning Hank it's Tuesday .   Last night I did something .  Specifically, I attended a live recording of one of my favourite podcasts, Harry Potter and the Sacred Text .   And it was such a lovely evening of thinking hard about stuff that matters and I emerged from it feeling different and more hopeful about the human enterprise .   Like it's been spring for a couple weeks here in Indianapolis but driving home last night, I finally felt like it was spring and I kept thinking about the E . E .  Cummings poem the begins,  " Spring is like a perhaps hand that comes carefully out of nowhere "  .   Anyway, all of this was quite a contrast from my usual Monday nights in which I do nothing .  For me, doing nothing means not making an active choice to do something .  Generally in my case this means, after the kids go to sleep, I scroll through Netflix for, like, 20 minutes trying to find something to watch, and either do find something to watch or else go up stairs to read a book .   Doing nothing can be lovely of course, but generally I don't actively chose to do nothing, it's sort of like a passive thing that happens .  It feels like the default state of affairs or the natural way of being .  Doing something feels like making a choice and doing nothing feels like not making one .   Slightly off topic, but there are many places in my life that feel like this .  For instance, every day I take a medication for my mental illness, but taking the medication feels like doing something and not taking it feels like doing nothing .   And the same is true of making the active choice to get a flu shot or to engage in philanthropy or to plant seeds in my garden .  In all these cases, doing nothing feels like the default, it feels like it isn't a choice .    And if I look for choices telling me to do nothing, I will find them .  There are plenty of sources out there to tell me that my medication wont work or isn't worth the side effects, or that the flu shot is dangerous, or that philanthropy never does any good, or that gardening is a waste of time .  They may not be the most accurate or authoritative sources: the flu shot is safe, I am definitely better off taking my medication, philanthropy can be an excellent way to improve people's lives and gardening is only a waste of time if you don't enjoy it; but because passive choices feel natural to me, I'm vulnerable to misinformation telling me that those choices are virtuous .   I struggle to make active choices every day, but the thing is, passive choices are also choices .  Not taking medication that has been prescribed to me is a choice, and an unwise one .  Staying home to watch Netflix is also a choice for me, sometimes a wise one, other times less so .   The truth is, most nights, I need to be at home, in a kind of metaphysical quiet, resting and recovering .   But I need to see those times as the choices they are, rather than some default or natural setting, which they aren't .   Years ago, a mayoral candidate in Birmingham, Alabama had a campaign slogan that's become kind of a catch-phrase in our family .  The slogan was,  " Larry Langford: Let's do something !  "  Not, like, something prudent, or something good, just something .  Now of course, this is a horrible campaign slogan, and indeed the candidate in question would go on the be convicted in a huge bribery scandal, but lately I've been thinking a lot about that slogan .  Like, while we're here, we're going to do something, a lot of somethings actually, and doing nothing is not a way out of the responsibilities and opportunities of personhood .   Whether I'm playing board games with my family or watching recordings of a podcast I love, my days end up better when I remember that I'm not choosing between doing something or doing nothing, I'm choosing which something to do .   Hank, thank you for doing this something with me for the last 12 years, I will see you on Friday .                 
Good Morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday . So you're currently trying to sort through titles for the sequel to you #1 New York Times best-selling novel An Absolutely Remarkable Thing and in trying to assist you I have re-realized something important, which is that I am terrible at titles . Like in a college creative writing class, I once called a story  " Things Remembered, Things Forgotten "  and my professor said,  " That's it, Green .  We're putting a moratorium on your titles .  " I'd like to think I have improved a little since then, but only a little .  All of which is to say, Nerdfighteria, that I need your help . My first book was called Looking for Alaska, which arguably isn't a great title for a book that isn't about the state of Alaska, although on the upside, I know that I'm in for a great TV interview when the host begins by asking,  " When did you first visit Alaska ?  " My friend Kier   actually came up with the title because all of mine were so bad .  I wanted to call the story  " White Flowers and Warm Malt Liquor "  which is a nice title for a country song but not so much for a novel, or else  " Famous Last Words "  which is a little on the nose . Alaska was also the first novel I attempted to tile  " More Light Than Heat "  .  I'm very found of this line from Hamlet about how some love blazes with more light than heat and every time I write a book at some point I think:  " You know what this book should be called ?  'More Light Than Heat' .  "   And then my publisher, Julie Strauss-Gabel, says,  " No .  Just No .  " Right so then there was An Abundance of Katherines, a title I actually quite like, not least because I wrote it before I wrote the rest of the story, although in the end, the Italian title, The Catherine Theorem, is much better .  Paper Towns ended up with an okay title, but only after I tried to call it  " The Life and Hard Times of Margo Roth Spiegelman " ,  " The Copy Right Trap " , and of course,  " More Light Than Heat "  . I also still like the name of Turtles All the Way Down, although it is slightly confusing in a book that is not about turtles, but is kind of about a different reptile .  It has however allowed my kids to make a lot of jokes about how my next novel will be called  " Lizards All the Way Up " , which I don't know, maybe it will be .   And then there is the fault in our stars which was very nearly titled  " The Sequel "  or else  " The Sequels "  plural because somehow that's gonna make it better ? Like I have all these emails that Julie and I exchanged in April of 2011 in which she's like,  " 'The Sequel' is not a good title, "  but more polite than that, and then I would reply with lots of information that I'm sure at the time seemed super relevant like, for instance, once I wrote,  " I am increasingly convinced that it is not our place to assert either the temporariness or the permanence of the universe, but that the meaning of life is basically bearing witness to the creation and its inhabitants "  which is like a nice sentiment but what the hell does that have to do with calling a novel that is not a sequel  " the Sequel "  ? At any rate I was eventually convinced that  " The Fault in Our Stars "  was a better title and because it's a play on a Shakespear line, it nearly quenched my thirst to call a book  " More Light Than Heat "  . I should mention that Rosiana called my attention to that line in  " Julius Caesar "  about the fault in our stars, which is relevant because Rosiana is great at titles .  For instance, she came up with the top notch title for our book club  " Life's Library "  which by the way has some slots open for our new book Isabella Yenday's House of the Spirits, If you want to sign up you can find out more at Lifeslibrarybookclub . com .  You get to read good books with nice people and all the proceeds go to Partners in Health's work in Sierra Leone . Speaking of which, I mentioned all of this because we need a title for Nerdfighteria's project with Partners in Health - Sierra Leone .  The idea is to provide ongoing funding to improve the healthcare system there because long term problems need long term solutions . So if you have a title idea for that, or for that matter, a title idea for Hank's Sequel, please let us know in comments . Wait, Hank, Wait, Have you considered calling it  " The Sequel "  ?  I mean it is a sequel .  Another idea, just gonna throw this one out,  " More Light Than Heat "  . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .  .  .  . Oh Hi P . S .  I've only wanted twitter in the last month a couple times, have I mentioned that I'm not on twitter ?  I'm not on twitter .  It's the  " I went to Harvard "  of internet citizenship .  Anyway I only wanted twitter a few times in the last month, mostly so that I could weep and gnash my teeth with worry over football but also because I really want everyone in the world to read Kaveh Akbar's new poem  " The Palace " , which is a great title .  It's so good even if you don't like poetry, I think you'll like this poem, link in the doobly-doo . Bye .                 
Good morning Hank it's Tuesday . So as you may be aware you are the training kit sponsor of America's favourite third tier English football team, AFC Wimbledon; Wait, I feel a camera 2 side-note coming on .  Side-note: you may not like sports but the story I'm about to tell you is not about sports . It's about whether hope is the correct response to the human condition .  Okay, so at the end of each season, the 4 worst teams in English football's third tier are demoted to the fourth tier .  Being among these places is known as being in the  " relegation zone "  and, you know, it is obviously undesirable . You don't want to have a fourth tier English football team, because then, you gotta go to places like Milton Keynes to play your football .  Right, so AFC Wimbledon entered the relegation zone near the beginning of this season in October and then, they stayed there .  In fact, for most of the season, AFC Wimbledon had been in last place and relegation felt inevitable . I mean the truth is, even in the third tier a lot of teams are owned by really rich owners .  AFC Wimbledon, meanwhile, are owned by their fans, each of whom pay about 30 bucks a year to be owners .  For context, some of the clubs in the third tier have an annual budget that is more than 10 times larger than our annual budget, so how are we going to compete ? Here's how bad things were .  The club got a new manager and in January, brought in a couple new players, including the 21 year old goalkeeper named Aaron Ramsdale and then, Wimbledon went on this incredible run, winning 5 out of 6 games .  After which, we were still in last place . The effort was noble, but almost guaranteed to be futile .  Almost guaranteed .  Almost . Somehow, Wimbledon kept winning .  In fact, we've only lost 1 of our last 11 games .  That 21 year old goalkeeper turned out to be a wizard . Our defense started clicking .  We started scoring the kinds of goals that are the glory of our past - scrappy, ugly goals .   And then, on Saturday, after 189 days in the relegation zone, AFC Wimbledon beat Wycombe 2 - 1 to move into the dizzying heights of 19th place with 1 game to go . It still might all fall apart of course .  We likely have to win or tie that last game in order to stay up, but we've got a chance !  If Wimbledon do stay up, it will be one of the greatest great escapes in English football history, and I think I know why it has happened . The players kept playing for each other and for their community as if the situation were not hopeless, even when it was .  That is my favourite thing about humans .  We are relentless . We don't need know when we're licked .  Even when we should give up, we don't .  It said everything to me that when Wimbledon scored a last second goal against lead-leading Luton Town a couple weeks ago, the players ran immediately to, and in some cases, into the stands . It reminded me of 2013, when Jack Midson scored a penalty in the last game of that season to keep Wimbledon in the fourth tier, and then celebrated by borrowing a fan's hat .  Now of course, I know that every reprieve is only temporary .  To borrow a line from Hank Williams, you'll never get out of this world alive . Even if the miracle lasts through Saturday, it won't last forever .   But I don't need forever .  Lately, I've been frustrated by how much effort is for nothing like, over the last few years, I've worked so much on stories that I eventually had to abandon and that's painful, because you want work that you put into the world to have been for something .  But I think that might be the wrong way to conceive of effort .  Earlier in that Luton Town game, Aaron Ramsdale made an absolutely ridiculous save on a deflected shot .  Most of the time, scrambling to try to tip away that deflected shot won't mean anything . Either you won't get there, or you'll lost the game anyway .   But you can't know which time putting in the effort will work, so you put the effort in every time .  That's what I learned about writing from football . Hank, if you want to support AFC Wimbledon, you can get this awesome scarf that even says  " DFTBA Nerdfighteria "  on it .  There's a link in the doobly-doo .  Also, if you're in or around Bradford this week, head over to the game and scream your head off on my behalf . God, I'm so nervous .  Alright Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank, it's Tuesday .  I'm making this video at a time distant for many of my books or movie adaptation stuff coming out so that it doesn't appear to be about me, which I really hope it isn't, but of course, I'm inevitably warped by my own experience .  More on how I might be wrong later, actually .  Okay, so I started out my writing career as a book reviewer .  Between 2000 and 2005 I reviewed hundreds of books for Booklist magazine .  I reviewed young adult novels and picture books and romance novels and books about boxing and books about early Islamic history and books about conjoined twins .  The number of books about conjoined twins, by the way, is truly astonishing .  Also, I've been lucky enough to review some great books for the New York Times book review, including Eleanor & Park and The Book Thief and The Hunger Games .  This all happened back at the beginning of the age of everyone reviewing everything, a wave that I have ridden profitably, if at times uncomfortably, my entire adult life .  In fact, my ongoing fascination with the format and the ubiquity of the review led me to my podcast, The Anthropocene Reviewed .  I was like,  " If people can review their haircuts and their breakfasts, why not cholera or the strange human habit of whispering ?  "  So, to be clear, I am strongly in favor of reviewing .  I think thoughtful analysis of art is vital to the creation of good art, and I think it can be super helpful to look at art through a lens, like looking at Game of Thrones through the lens of climate change, for instance, or looking at Jane Eyre through the lens of shifting gender norms .   But I tend to be less moved by criticism in the colloquial sense of the word, like articles or videos explaining everything wrong with x, or fourteen reasons z is terrible, or whatever .  Now of course it's important to point out flaws in art, that can help encourage the creation of better art, but I think the most important thing criticism can do it find and lift up important and beautiful work that might otherwise go unnoticed .  I don't read to discover what's wrong with a story, although there are many somethings wrong with every story .  I read to be moved in every sense of the word, to go to places I haven't been and to glimpse worlds I otherwise couldn't see, including the worlds deep within myself .   And critics, whether in the New York Times or on Goodreads can help us to discover the books that will move us and also give us a framework through which to think about them .  So, I think what we mean when we say a book is quote-unquote  " good "  is that it's worth our attention .  A good book is one that, if read generously, will offer big gifts in return .   And part of what frustrates me about the everything-wrong-with-x school of criticism is that it mostly makes the case for not paying attention to something, which I think is a case usually best made by not paying attention to something .  Of course, there are exceptions, when really popular work is culturally destructive, for instance, but I just don't think that, in general, communities organized around hating art that deserves less attention are as productive as communities organized around loving art that deserves more attention .  So that's how I try to read in critique, with an eye toward what about this experience is valuable and worthy of attention, what stories have expanded my universe or changed the way I think .  Among recent reads, Melinda Gates's The Moment of Lift has changed the way I think about gender discrimination and its role in poverty and the graphic novel adaptation of Kindred has kept me thinking about the past's omnipresence .  Both those books felt like really good investments of my attention, which is how I'm trying to think about reading these days .  I'm trying to think less about whether something is good or bad and more about which works of art I should look at and how to look at them .  Of course, I might be wrong about how to read and review .  I do remember a time when the ideals that animated my life felt certain and important and I was absolutely sure that I was contributing to culture in a positive way, but that moment has passed and now I am uncertain about everything .  I'm even uncertain about being uncertain !  Should I have unshakeable beliefs ?  Maybe, but for now, I'm letting books and art and life shake them .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday . This video is an open letter to professional YouTubers, but it's also for anyone who wants to understand the challenges of the fraught career of professional influencing . Hi, I'm John Green .  I write books and I've been making YouTube videos for more than 12 years now .  Also, I'm somewhat repulsed by the word influencer .  It makes me feel like one of the baddies in a dystopian novel, which, to be fair, maybe I am .   But, the nice thing about  " influencer "  is that it's accurate .  If you have an audience, you help shape their world view; both when it comes to which goods and services to purchase, and when it comes to what to believe and value .  That's a weird job, and today I want to share with you some things I've learned about it . First, being a professional person of the internet is not like being a doctor or a lawyer or whatever .  It's more like being a professional athlete .  Online careers are unpredictable and they're often short .  Which isn't necessarily bad news, by the way .  Like, it can be wonderful to do many things in your professional life .   But, I do think it's worth trying to learn about stuff while you are professional influencer that can help you down the road when you are professionally something else, whether that's social media marketing or post-production or, as in my case, writing . Secondly, many of us get absolutely no financial education in school, and professional influencers tend to be young and inexperienced with money .  Which, one, can make it difficult to figure out how to prioritize financial stuff, and, two, leaves people vulnerable to exploitation .  Even if, like me, you are aggressively bad at math, I really recommend trying to learn more about personal finance by reading books, like Gaby Dunn's Bad With Money, listening to podcasts, like Planet Money, and watching YouTube shows, like Two Cents and The Financial Diet . As for the people who make you money, agents and managers can be wonderful advocates, but remember, they have no life-long investment in you .  If you cease to be a lucrative relationship for them, they can find it a different you, a younger and hipper and more influential influencer .   But, you are your only you .   And, ultimately, that means you have to be the person to balance short-term interest and long-term interest when it comes to issues like when to turn down unsavory sponsorships . Speaking of which, third, when it comes to money opportunities, Hank always asks me two questions: Is this in line with our goals for our community and our we adding more value that we're capturing ?  We've made lots of mistakes along the way, but, from what kind of shirts to sell to whether to promote loot boxes, I do think we benefit a lot from asking those questions . Ok, fourth, this did not happen because you work harder than anyone else or because you are more talented .  You are talented and you do work hard, but you have also been fortunate .  You're fortunate to have high-speed internet and access to editing software, and you've also gotten lucky along the way in innumerable ways .  Luck does not nullify hard work, but hard work also does not nullify luck .  Fifth, you are a person .  Those who love your work will naturally be inclined to think of you as more than a person, which can be intoxicating .  It's nice to hear that you're a literal god or the best Fortniter or Vlogger or whatever noun is currently being personalized .   But, there will also be people who think you're less than human, who say that you are literal trash . We don't talk about this much because it can seem like ingratitude, but receiving online hate can be scary and painful, and I'm sorry if you have to live with it .  In my experience it's really important to find places where you can be a person, whether that's an anonymous Reddit account or, god forbid, offline, because otherwise you can start to believe both those who think you're more than a person and those who think you're less than one . Lastly, as my brother like to say, diversify your identity .  In this world, so much of your life can become your job .  Your friends and family can be involved in your job .  When you take a walk, you're doing your job if you Instagram it .  Your life and work can become so completely intertwined that you stop think of yourself as, for instance, John Green, person, husband, father, AFC Wimbledon sponsor, a vowed Hufflepuff, etcetera, and begin to think of yourself as just John Green, YouTuber .  No career can healthfully carry all your identity, let alone one as weird and unpredictable as thing .  And so, dear influencer, I wish you the algorithim's wind in your sails, and a flood of new followers .   But, most of all, I wish you a long and varied life of making helpful things with nice people . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .   So I've seen how the celebrity industrial complex can manufacture heroic narratives around almost any person, or for that matter manufacture villainous ones, whichever if more fiscally useful .   And I'm disturbed by corporations commodifying human souls to sell movie tickets .     And I know the only reason people are talking about Keanu Reeves right now is because he has a new movie out and various P . R .  machinations are incredibly good at getting us to give that movie free advertising, but still .  .  .   I freaking love Keanu Reeves .    And haircut .   Now listen, I don't believe that Keanu Reeves is like a golden god or anything .  If you want people to admire, look to teachers and librarians, not actors, or for that matter novelists .  I don't think that Keanu Reeves has like achieved enlightenment or whatever, I just think that from what I know of him, Keanu Reeves has come closer to achieving enlightenment than any other famous person .    But let's start with his work: Keanu Reeves is a great actor .  Some people don't get his acting, which is fine, some people don't get why Shakespeare was a great play-write but he still was .  Speaking of which, when Keanu Reeves turned down $11 million to be in Speed 2 and instead played Hamlet in Winnipeg, Manitoba, the Sunday Times critic called his performance,  " one of the top three Hamlets I have seen, for a simple reason: he is Hamlet "  .   Look, I don't labour under the delusion that Keanu Reeves has never been in a bad movie, but I do believe he's never been bad in a movie .  He's a great comic actor, Bill and Ted is a classic .  He's a wonderful dramatic actor, see for instance his wrenching performance in My Own Private Idaho .   And he's an action icon .  There's an old line Hollywood producers ask about actors:  " Sure he can act, but can he hold a gun ?  "  Keanu Reeves can hold a gun .    But what most fascinates me about Keanu is his work off screen, in dealing with the press and in being a famous person who is seemingly able to maintain a sense of self, which I can report is a tricky business, even for those of us who aren't the faces of billion dollar movie franchises .   Keanu's the kind of person who might say in an interview the he respects Buddhism but, quote, 'hasn't taken refuge in the Dharma,' or he might dismiss Hollywood gossip by saying that it exists in a another universe that doesn't have much to do with me .  Or he might refer to the endless memification of his life as quote, 'that internet deal . '  Hank, as you pointed out in your video, what makes Keanu so brilliant at interviewing is that he really listens, he listens to precisely the question that is being asked and then he answers it carefully .  Before I knew any actors, I thought that acting was about pretending, like I basically though it was a form of lying .   But, really, I think acting is mostly about listening .   Right, so because of all these interviews, and because he's been a public figure for decades, there's a lot we know about Keanu Reeves .  We know that he's dyslexic, that he attended four different high schools, that he has written a funny book about being sad called Ode to Happiness .  We know that has plays the bass and reads Proust and co-founded a motorcycle company .    But really, we don't know much at all about Keanu Reaves .  As he once noted,  " I'm Mickey Mouse .  They don't know who's inside the suit .  "  Indeed we don't .  When I was younger, I wanted to be famous because I though it would be nice to have people like me .   But when my work became publicly known, I never though as if people liked me, I felt as if they liked Mickey Mouse .   I became interested in Keanu Reeves because he seemed to have found a way though the complexity and what I've concluded after reading interviews and stories about him is that we don't know who's in his Mickey Mouse suit, but Keanu does, and that's all the matters .   And yeah, it is nice to be able to sit on a park bench without having to worry about being photographed .   But with that problem, which is very real, comes opportunities, which are also very real .  Not just opportunities to lend your voice to causes that matter, but also opportunities to make people's days better by taking selfies with them or by photo-bombing their wedding pictures .   Now of course it's easy to make people happy when you're wearing a Mickey Mouse suit, but each of us has the opportunity every day to be kind to other's and to listen carefully to them .  Thanks for teaching me that Keanu .   Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .   You're looking at the sky above Indianapolis last night, well sort of .  I've been thinking a lot about what cameras see, and what they don't .  To my eyes, the sky last night looked bright .  Light pollution bounced off the clouds as they blew slowly south-west .  The camera can't see the crisp edges of the clouds or the glimpses of Venus behind them .  On the other hand, set a camera still and let it take in light for a long time and it will see much more than the eye can .   Before we started making YouTube videos in 2007, I'd never actually owned a video camera .  In fact, I almost never took pictures of any kind; I only have about a dozen photos of myself from between the ages of 18 and 27 .   When I got that first video camera, it learned that, while 2007 camcorders were good at capturing static spaces built by humans: apartment walls, bookshelves, car interiors; they became utterly overwhelmed by the actual world .  Even a few leaves fluttering in the wind, turned my 2007 camcorder into an impressionist painting .   When you make video, you try to keep the light steady and the background noise steady and the camera steady .  Outside nothing is steady .  Cameras are better now of course, and even though we repeat to ourselves, mantra like, that the images we see online are only a tiny slither of a person's experience, it's harder to be aware of the distance between what you see and what the camera sees .   I remember photographing myself and Sarah in the vast and empty salt flats of Utah, being careful to angle the camera so it wouldn't capture the many other people photographing themselves in the vast and empty salt flats of Utah .    But even though I know that people only film the moments they want me to see, even though I recognise that pictures don't capture reality so much as crop it, I can't help but feel like images are really real .  Images are proof; these images prove it was cloudy last night in Indianapolis .   But images are also necessarily distortions; this isn't the sky I saw last night, not really, but it's also the only record I have of that sky .   Way, way before Instagram or Snapchat, Susan Sontag described in her essay, On Photography,  "  .  .  .  the camera's twin capacities, to subjectivize reality and to objectify it .  .  .  "  How do we hold those twin capacities in our mind together, how do we look at an image and see that it is both real and distorted, how do we remain aware that weather we are talking about the night sky or Instagram feeds or video blogs, no matter how much the camera captures, it will always fail to capture almost everything .  I can know this intellectually, but as a practical matter, I am overwhelmed by the power of images, my mind can't help but believe what the camera sees .   Sontag also wrote that, quote,  " needing to have reality confirmed and experience enhanced by photographs is an aesthetic consumerism to which everyone is now addicted .  "  I sometimes feel like something isn't really real unless I've documented it, as if my memories and even my life itself will just slip past like the clouds through last night's sky .  More than anything I take pictures as a way of trying to fix myself in time, a way of saying,  " I was here, I was here, I was .  "     But the pictures wont last either of course, and the risk of seeing everything through a camera is that you miss everything the camera doesn't see .  I can't show you last night's sky, not really, but you can see tonight's, it won't photograph well and it won't last and you wont remember it forever, but it will be beautiful and important none the less .   Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank it's Tuesday .   I had a great weekend, in fact I'm probably experiencing peak happiness right now .    So listen, I don't believe in listening to my gut, I find my gut to be unreliable on many levels .  Sorry about my voice by the way, I've been screaming for four days .     But yeah, when you live with an illness of disordered thinking as I do, you have to learn not to trust your intuition, because it's constantly lying to you .  To cite a minor example from my own life, my intuition tells me many times a day that I did not lock the car door .  When, in fact, I always lock the car door .    I bring this up because on Saturday morning my unreliable gut told me that in order for the soccer team that I've loved for most of my life to win the Champion's League I needed to give away one of my most prized possessions .  A jersey signed by former Liverpool captain Stephen Gerard .   Now this is the part of the video where I tell you that, of course I understand that giving away a signed jersey is not going to affect  the outcome of a sporting event that's happening thousands of miles away .   But no, no I don't know understand that !    I mean I get it intellectually, I guess .   But one, like a lot of humans .  I'm incurably superstitious .  And two, who am I to say why we won the Champions League !    But, I think something else might have also been going on .  Which is that, lately I've been thinking a lot about the verb  " to treasure "  and how valuing something can sometimes lead to hoarding it .  When what would help the universe most, might be to share what you value, rather than clinging to it .    Like, that jersey had brought me a lot of joy, and maybe it was time for it to bring someone else joy .   Right, so I was in New York City for Book Con that day, and I walked into a soccer bar, found a guy sitting alone wearing a Liverpool shirt, that appeared to be approximately a size L .   And I told him that I'd had a premonition that I needed to give away this signed jersey, and I gave it to him .  He was a nice guy with a PhD in, I think, something sciency, he didn't know who I was but he was very excited about the jersey .    So we chatted for a bit, took a picture together, and then I left .  He told me his name but I don't remember it .  I'm not gonna show his face because I don't know if he wants his face shown, but if anyone happens to know this guy, I would love to know how his day went !    Due, primarily, to me giving away this jersey, and secondarily to the exploits of the players on the field Liverpool won the game two - nil .  I was actually back stage at Book Con during the last couple minutes of the game .   And Kristine Froseth, who plays Alaska in the Looking for Alaska Hulu show, got this video of me very nervous and excited !    After the game Akilah Hughes and I went to a Liverpool bar in the neighbourhood and sang our hearts out .   And everyone was hugging everyone .  At one point in the evening, I was hugging a stranger, which is not something I do in the normal course of daily events and I noticed that he was crying, he was heaving sobs and I didn't understand why he was crying .    Until I found that I was also crying, and then I knew why .   Sports are about winning and losing, heartbreak and joy, grief and celebration .  They provide simple narratives when life only provides complicated ones .   But more than that, I think that they are about celebrating together, and grieving together, and being together .    Sports reminds us that what we have is not as important as what we share, and that we are never truly alone .  Not in loss and not in victory .   At the end of every game, Liverpool fans sing a song that ends  " Walk on, walk on, with hope in your heart and you'll never walk alone "  My wish is that each of us might always know that truth as profoundly as I did on Saturday night .  Wether you love football or not, you'll never walk alone .    Hank, I'll see you on Friday .  Subtitled singing .  
Good morning, Hank .  It's Tuesday . I recently learned it's been 510 days since my fifth novel, Turtles All the Way Down, was published, and if I'd written just like a paragraph or two each of those 510 days, I would have at least finished a draft of a sixth novel .   But, I haven't and today I want to talk about why . This came to my attention, by the way, because the paperback edition of Turtles All the Way Down is being published today in the United States .  It's like the hardcover except less expensive and also the cover is softer and there's a Q&A at the back and we fixed a couple typos .  But, yeah, I haven't written a novel in the last 510 day .  Partly because I have been working on other stuff, Crash Course European History, our project with Partners in Health, TV and movie adaptations .   But, then again, I've had some kind of day job for most of my writing life .  The truth is a little more complicated . Turtles All the Way Down has been very generously received, both by critics and by readers .   And, I want to emphasize how grateful I am to have a large audience and even to have my books reviewed in places like The New York Times and The Guardian, let alone positively .  But, the process of publishing the book was very difficult for me .  I realize this is the pinnacle of champagne problems, but I was really overwhelmed with fear about whether people would like it and whether it was a good and useful thing to put into the world and whether it was the best book it could be, and so on . Also, and this is the champagne-y-est problem of them all, when you have a lot of success, it can start to feel like everyone has to develop and opinion of your work, even if they aren't particularly familiar with it or particularly interested in it .  Like, I haven't seen 50 Shades of Gray, but I still feel like I have to have an opinion about 50 Shades of Gray .   And, I kind of do have an opinion .  Although, maybe the opinion is wrong .  Maybe the movie's amazing .   But, when that happens, when you make a thing that people like, or, in some cases, dislike so much they define themselves in opposition to it, it can be pretty destabilizing .  Writing stories has always been like a way out of myself; trying to inhabit other people's consciousnesses can give me a break from having to inhabit my own .   But, publishing those stories is about something else: a complicated mess of wanting people to like me, wanting to be successful, hoping that my stories might be useful or important to the people who read them, and wanting to pass on some of the gifts that other people's stories have given me .  And so, for at least the past, like, decade, writing for me hasn't only, or even primarily, been about writing .  It's also about touring and publicity and movie rights .  All of which, I am ridiculously lucky to stress about, but which I nonetheless find stressful .   And, all that together means that, for the moment anyway, I'm not really able to write much fiction .   But, I haven't stopped writing .  Instead, I've started writing in a place that's felt quieter and safer to me; where people who liked my work could find it, but people who didn't care to probably wouldn't .  I started a podcast with a somewhat weird premise, reviewing facets of the human-centered planet on a five-star scale, and gave it a hard to spell name, the Anthropocene Reviewed .   And, for the last year and a half, I've been writing about everything from scratch-and-sniff stickers and the Taco Bell breakfast menu to the practice of googling strangers .  And, it has been so fun and so fulfilling to explore a new kind of writing, and to seek out places where my personal experiences connect to universal ones .  Like, I was way to into scratch-and-sniff stickers when I was a kid, an early symptom with my long-term fascination with virtualized experience, but I didn't understand the strange and beautiful chemistry of those stickers until I started writing about them .  The pleasure of unexpected discovery turn out to be similar, whether you're writing fiction or nonfiction . I do intend to publish more novels, many more hopefully, but, in the mean time, I'm very grateful that the ones I've written are still finding new readers .  Books are quiet and interior experiences in a very loud world, and so are my favorite podcasts .  So, regardless of the medium, I just want to say thank you for listening . Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
Good morning Hank, it's Tuesday .  Greetings from the shores of Lake Michigan, one of the five great lakes of North America, which together are larger than Great Britain and contain around twenty percent of the world's fresh water . People in the midwest sometimes refer to the great lakes as 'America's third coast' and it does feel that way to look out at the horizon .  On a clear day, I can just make out the skyline of Chicago some sixty miles southwest of here .   But look north west, and there is nothing but water to the horizon line and far far beyond .  Its reported that in 1634, when Jean Nicolet became the first European to venture across Lake Michigan, he thought he'd made it to China . Whenever I look at a vast body of water stretching all the way to the horizon, I become suddenly and newly aware that I am on a planet .  Like, I am on a ball heated by a distant light in a way that allows for this water to be, all in all, quite temperate .   And life is not just contingent upon that distant light, but in many ways a direct product of the light .  We are powered by sunlight .  Sunlight stored in the fossil fuels we burn, and in the plants we eat .  Every tree and drop of liquid water, the teaming life of the microcosmos, every blade of grass and the song of every mockingbird, all of it runs one way or another on solar power .  We don't just need the sun, we are, sort of, comprised of its energy . No wonder then that Wikipedia's list of solar deities is so long, from the Egyptian Ra, to the Greek Helios, to the Aztec Nanauatzin who sacrificed himself by leaping into a vast bonfire so that he could become the shining sun .  This makes sense because the sun is like a god in its fearsome and wondrous power .  Also, like a god, the sun is difficult or even dangerous to look at directly .  In the book of Exodus, God says  " You cannot see my face, for Man shall not see me and live .  "  and so it is with the blinding sun .  in Pilgrim at Tinder Creek, Annie Dillard says:  " We have really only that one light, one source for all power, and yet we must turn away from it by universal decree .  Nobody here on the planet seems aware of this strange, powerful taboo, that we all walk about carefully averting our faces this way and that, lest our eyes be blasted forever .  "  Days here on the third coast tend to close with gaudily beautiful sunsets, the kind that remind you of the T . S . Eliot line about how light is the visible reminder of the invisible light .  It's easy to forget how breathtakingly beautiful the planet is .  Not breathtakingly beautiful actually, but breath-givingly beautiful .  Look at what the sun has made of its energy- trees and the wind that blows in them, warm water and the creatures that drink it .  Beauty and those who marvel at it .   But to me the weirdest thing the sun has made from its energy is consciousness .  In us, the light has made a way of understanding itself .  For me, a third coast sunset shows me how small I am .  On the banks of this vast lake, which is itself small compared to the planet, which is small compared to the sun, which is just one star among the countless . As I walked along the sandy beach after nightfall I thought of the mind-blowing fact that there are more stars in the universe than grains of sand on Earth .  I am so inconsequential, a footnote to a footnote to a footnote .   But how wondrous to be here in the first place .  To bear witness to the setting sun .  To know that you are not just in the universe, but also of it .  Hank, I'll see you on Friday .                 
